<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY appname "&korn;" >
 <!ENTITY package "kdepim">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kappname; Documentation</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Nick</firstname>
<surname>Betcher</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>nbetcher@uswest.net</email></address></affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Sirtaj</firstname>
<surname>Kang</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Sirtaj.Singh.Kang.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Cristian</firstname>
<surname>Tibirna</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Cristian.Tibirna.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Kurt</firstname>
<surname>Granroth</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Kurt.Granroth.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Rik</firstname>
<surname>Hemsley</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Rik.Hemsley.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation><address>&Lauri.Watts.mail;</address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-11-09</date>
<releaseinfo>0.03.00</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>&Nick.Betcher;</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract><para>This Documentation describes &kappname; Version
0.2</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KOrn</keyword>
<keyword>File searching</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&kappname; is a &kde; Mail Checker that has the capabilities to dock itself to
&kicker;. &kappname; can check the following types of
mailboxes:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>mbox type
(<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>:<filename>/var/spool/mail/root</filename>)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>qmail</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>POP3</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Imap4</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>nntp</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>and the ability to check on a process</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>&kappname;, checks your mail on an interval that is user specified for each
separate account.  Once mail is received you can have &kappname; run a 3rd party
program of your wishes or change the color/icon of &kappname; while docked in
&kicker;. In addition to this you can have &kappname; run a program once you click
on the docked icon in &kicker;.</para>

<para>The rest of this chapter relies on the user to &RMB; click on the &kappname;
icon in the &kicker; panel to access the appropriate menus.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="the-preferences-dialog">
<title>The Preferences Dialog</title>

<sect1 id="the-buttons">

<title>The buttons</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Preferences</guilabel> window is the most powerful part of
&kappname;. At a first glimpse you may underestimate its capabilities, but further
under-the-hood you will find many ways to use &kappname;.</para>

<para>The first tab lists your current mailboxes. As default &kappname; installs
<quote>Inbox</quote> as the default mailbox. The default <quote>Inbox</quote>
may not fit most users needs. With this default mailbox in place &kappname; will
check the path <filename
class="directory">/var/spool/mail/<replaceable>user</replaceable></filename> for
new mail.</para>

<para>The <link linkend="the-new-dialog"><guibutton>New...</guibutton></link>
button will be covered in the next section. Please jump ahead if that is the
section you need assistance with.</para>

<para>If you would like to remove the selected mailbox, click the
<guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button on the right. You can also copy the
selected mailbox if you don't wish to create two similar mailboxes twice.</para>

<para>Finally, after you have created a mailbox (see the next section), you can
modify it by selecting the mailbox you wish to edit and then clicking
<guibutton>Modify...</guibutton>. This dialog contains the same options as
when you click <guibutton>New...</guibutton>.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-display-tab">

<title>The <guilabel>Display</guilabel> Tab</title>

<para>The display tab contains the options to change where &kappname; will show
itself.</para>

<para>The first option, <guilabel>Horizontal</guilabel>, will create a window
and the contents of the window will contain the options you specified in the
<guilabel>View</guilabel> tab (which you can get to by selecting your mailbox
and clicking <guimenuitem>Modify...</guimenuitem>). On the other hand, selecting
<guilabel>Docked</guilabel> will dock &kappname; into the &kicker; panel.</para>

<para>The option <guilabel>Vertical</guilabel> is similar to
<guilabel>Horizontal</guilabel>, except the accounts stack
vertically.</para>

</sect1>
<sect1 id="the-new-dialog">
<title>The <guilabel>New...</guilabel> Dialog</title>

<para>The <guibutton>New...</guibutton> button will load a window showing you
what mailboxes can be created for checking on a interval. Select your
appropriate mailbox type. If you don't know what type you should use, and you
currently use &Netscape; to check your mail, use
POP3.</para>

<para>Following that window the modify options appear, allowing you to change
all aspects of the mail checking, including interval.</para>

<para>Each mailbox type (&ie;: Pop3, nntp, imap) has different server options,
but the rest of the options (including Poll, Commands, and View) are the same
(excluding mailbox type <quote>process</quote>). In these server options dialogs
you need to enter the appropriate information to fit your situation. Keep in
mind the default ports that are entered some of the server options tabs are the
normal ones used by the majority of the Internet.</para>

<para>The commands <guilabel>Poll</guilabel> tab contains one option that
changes the time interval between each check. Keep in mind this is in seconds,
not minutes.</para>

<para>Next, the <guilabel>view</guilabel> tab has options for changing the icon
or icon color while &kappname; is docked in &kicker;. There are two options:
<guilabel>Use color</guilabel> or <guilabel>Use icon</guilabel>. Selecting
<guilabel>Use color</guilabel> will allow you to modify the colors. Selecting
<guilabel>Use icon</guilabel> will allow you to change which icon is used for
both <quote>Normal</quote> and <quote>New mail</quote>. Keep in mind that &kappname;
can only use a icon or color, not both.</para>

<para>In the commands tab you can specify a command to be run once you receive
new mail in the <guilabel>New mail</guilabel> line. Also, the
<guilabel>Click</guilabel> line can contain a command to be run when you
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click on &kappname;.</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>
<chapter id="licenses-and-credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&kappname;.  Program copyright 2000:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>&Sirtaj.Singh.Kang; &Sirtaj.Singh.Kang.mail;</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Cristian Tibirna &Cristian.Tibirna.mail;</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Kurt Granoth &Kurt.Granroth.mail;</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>&Rik.Hemsley; &Rik.Hemsley.mail;</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation copyright 2000 &Nick.Betcher;
<email>nbetcher@uswest.net</email></para>

<para>We hope this documentation helped you. If you need to contact me, the
document writer, you can at nbetcher@uswest.net. If you wish to contact the
developers of &kappname;, you can find their names in the <guimenuitem>About
Korn...</guimenuitem> option or above.</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>



</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

