<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY kappname "&kpilot;">
<!ENTITY kpilotver "5.2.1">
<!ENTITY package "kdepim">
<!ENTITY USB "<acronym>USB</acronym>">
<!ENTITY PalmOS '<trademark class="registered">Palm OS</trademark>'>
<!ENTITY PalmOne '<trademark class="registered">PalmOne</trademark>'>
<!ENTITY Sony '<trademark class="registered">Sony</trademark>'>
<!ENTITY Clie "<productname><trademark>Clie</trademark></productname>">
<!ENTITY FreeBSD '<trademark class="registered">FreeBSD</trademark>'>
<!ENTITY handheld "handheld">
<!ENTITY configuring-kpilot SYSTEM "configuration.docbook">
<!ENTITY using-kpilot SYSTEM "usage.docbook">
<!ENTITY synchronization SYSTEM "sync.docbook">
<!ENTITY kpilot-faq SYSTEM "faq.docbook">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" ><!-- Change language ONLY here -->
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
]>

<!--
    From LW: http://www.palm.com/about/trademark.html According to this,
	we have have overspecified some of the trademarks... feel free to
	adjust if you think this is the case.
-->

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>&kpilot; User's Guide</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
	<firstname>Carlos</firstname>
	<othername>Leonhard</othername>
	<surname>Woelz</surname>
	<affiliation>
		<address><email>carloswoelz@imap-mail.com</email></address>
	</affiliation>
</author>
<author>
	<firstname>Adriaan</firstname>
	<othername>de</othername>
	<surname>Groot</surname>
	<affiliation>
		<address><email>groot@kde.org</email></address>
	</affiliation>
</author>
<author>
	<firstname>Dan</firstname>
	<surname>Pilone</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>1999</year>
<year>2000</year>
<year>2001</year>
<year>2002</year>
<year>2003</year>
<year>2004</year>
<holder>Adriaan de Groot</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year>2004</year>
<year>2005</year>
<holder>Carlos Woelz</holder>
</copyright>


<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2009-03-14</date>
<releaseinfo>&kpilotver;</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kpilot; &kpilotver; is the &kde; version of the Desktop &HotSync; software for
&PalmOne; handhelds, the &ThreeCom; &PalmPilot; and other &PalmOS; devices.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KPilot</keyword>
<keyword>kdepim</keyword>
<keyword>palm pilot</keyword>
<keyword>synchronization</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kpilot; &kpilotver; is an application that synchronizes your &PalmPilot; or
similar device (like the &Handspring; &Visor;, the &Sony; &Clie; or other
&PalmOS; devices) with your &kde; desktop, much like the Palm Desktop &HotSync;
software does for &Windows;. &kpilot; can back-up, restore, and &HotSync; your
&PalmPilot;. It can synchronize the built-in applications with their &kde;
counterparts. It also features additional conduits for third-party software.
</para>

<para>
There is a web page for &kpilot;: the <ulink
url="http://www.kpilot.org/">Official &kpilot; Home Page</ulink>. The <ulink
url="http://pim.kde.org/">&kde;-PIM website</ulink> also offers useful information
on the subject of <acronym>PIM</acronym> in general. &kpilot; shares the
kdepim-users mailing list, <email>kdepim-users@kde.org</email>. See <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/mailinglists"> the mailing lists page</ulink> for more
information on subscribing and unsubscribing from the list.
</para>

<!--
<para>
A word about version numbers: &kpilot; 4.5.x is current and still unstable as of
August 2005. It does not work with KDE versions lower than 3.2.
</para>
-->

<sect1 id="trademarks">
<title>Trademarks</title>
<para>
&kpilot; describes synchronization operations
with &PalmOS; devices, and it uses the word &HotSync;
to name those synchronization operations,
while recognizing that &HotSync; is a trademark of
Palm, Inc. Holders of other trademarks, such as
&Handspring; &Visor;, &Sony; &Clie;, and
the Palm, Inc. trademarks &PalmPilot; and
<productname><trademark>Zire</trademark></productname>
are recognized as well.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="overview">
<title>Overview of &kpilot;</title>

<para>
&kpilot; consists of two parts: the &kpilot; daemon, which sits
in the system tray and handles the actual communication with
the &handheld;, and the normal &kpilot; program, which lets
you configure the daemon and view the databases on your
&handheld;. In normal operation, you will not need to use &kpilot;
itself very much, since the daemon handles communication unobtrusively
and synchronizes your data to &kde; applications like &korganizer;
and &knotes;. &kpilot; is integrated into &kontact; as well.
</para>

<para>
It is vital to configure &kpilot; before use. At the very least,
you need to tell it which hardware device to use to communicate with
your &handheld;.
Configuration settings are described at length in
the <link linkend="configure">section on configuring &kpilot;</link>.
</para>

<para>
Once &kpilot; is configured, you should make a 
backup of your &handheld; first. That is to be on the
safe side. Once that is done, you can just leave the &kpilot; daemon running in
the system tray, and all you need to do is press the &HotSync; button, and
changes in the &handheld; data and the &kde; applications will be <link
linkend="synchronization">synchronized</link>, so that the information matches
again on both the &handheld; and the desktop.
</para>

<para>
Finally, &kpilot; can be used to <link linkend="installer-app">install</link>
new programs and databases on your &handheld;.
</para>

<!--
FIXME: Old Warnings
<caution>
<title>Changes in &kpilotver;</title>
<para>
The expressiveness of the <guilabel>No Backup</guilabel> configuration
item, which prevents specific databases from being backed up (for space, speed,
or stability reasons), has been extended.
In particular, the old format listed only
creator values, while the new format can list wildcard database names
as well as creator values.
The value set in the configuration dialog will be automatically adjusted to
the new format.
</para>
<para>
In &kpilot; &kpilotver;, the way conduits are programmed changed,
and you will need to use newly compiled conduits. If there are
old conduits on your system, &kpilot; will prompt you to remove them.
</para>
<para>
Please take the time to review all of the configuration settings.
</para>
</caution>
-->
</chapter>


&configuring-kpilot;
&using-kpilot;
&synchronization;
&kpilot-faq;


<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kpilot;
Program copyright 1998-2000 by &Dan.Pilone;
&Dan.Pilone.mail;
</para>
<para>
Contributors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Adriaan de Groot <email>groot@kde.org</email></para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>&Preston.Brown; <email>pbrown@redhat.com</email></para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>VCal and To-do Conduits by: Herwin Jan Steehouwer,
Kenneth Albanowski, &Michael.Kropfberger;
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Popmail Conduit overhaul: Marko Gr&ouml;nroos
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>&kaddressbook; Conduit: Greg Stern
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Patches by:
J&ouml;rn Ahrens,
Robert Ambrose,
J&ouml;rg Habenicht,
Philipp Hullmann,
Dag Nygren,
Scott Presnell,
Heiko Purnhagen,
Chuck Robey
and
Jay Summet
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2000,2001 Adriaan de Groot <email>groot@kde.org</email>.
Documentation copyright 2004,2005 Carlos Leonhard Woelz
<email>carloswoelz@imap-mail.com</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</chapter>

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->

