<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC  "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" [
  <!ENTITY knotes "<application>Knotes</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&knotes;" -- this only *seems* redundant -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % ents PUBLIC "-//KDE//ENTITIES Application-Variable Entities
V1.0//EN">
  %ents;
]>

<book lang="en">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &knotes; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Greg</firstname>
<othername>M.</othername>
<surname>Holmes</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>holmegm@earthlink.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit>
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>vampyr@atconnex.net</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year><year>2001</year>
<holder>Greg M. Holmes</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>20/09/2000</date>
<releaseinfo>1.01.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract><para>&knotes; is a sticky notes application for the
desktop.</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Knotes</keyword>
<keyword>kdeutils</keyword>
<keyword>notes</keyword>
<keyword>popup</keyword>
<keyword>pop-up</keyword>
<keyword>knotes</keyword>

</keywordset>

</bookinfo>


<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&knotes; is a program that lets you write the computer equivalent of
sticky notes.  The notes are saved automatically when you exit the program, and
they display when you open the program. </para>

<para>You may print and mail your notes if you configure &knotes; to use helper
applications. </para>

<para>Display features of notes such as color and font may be customized for
each note.  You may also customize the defaults. </para>

<sect1 id="knotes-revhistory">
<title>Knotes Revision History</title>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>0.4 - new internal saving scheme.  You must backup your old
&knotes; 0.3.2 or earlier notes and cut and past their content from an editor
into  a new &knotes; 0.4.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>0.3 - had to change the name to &knotes;.  Minor bug fixes.  A
&knotes; note now remembers its position on the desktop provided you have
<application>kwm</application> 0.7 p4 or newer.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>0.2 - first public release.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-knotes">
<title>How to obtain &knotes;</title>

<para>&knotes; is part of the KDE project <ulink
 url="http://www.kde.org">http://www.kde.org</ulink>.  &knotes; can be found in
 the kdeutils package on <ulink
 url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, the main
 ftp site of the KDE project. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>In order to print or mail notes, you need to have helper applications
installed, such as <application>a2ps</application> and
<application>kmail</application>.  You will need to configure &knotes to use
these helper applications.  </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and installation</title>

<para>In order to compile and install &knotes; on your system, type the
following in the base directory of the kdeutils distribution:</para>

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput>./configure</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput>make</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>

<para>Since &knotes; uses <application>autoconf</application> and
<application>automake</application> you should have no trouble compiling
it. Should you run into problems please report them to the KDE mailing
lists.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configuration">
<title>Configuration</title>

<sect2 id="ConfiguringDisplay">
<title>Configuring the Display in &knotes;</title>

<para>To configure the display:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Right-click on the panel icon.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Preferences...</guimenuitem></para>
<para>The &knotes; <guilabel>Defaults - KNotes</guilabel> dialog will
open.</para> </step>
<step><para>Choose the <guiicon>Display</guiicon> icon from the three icons at
the left.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The following choices are available:

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Text Color</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The color square shows the current text color.  By clicking this
color square you open the standard KDE color selection
dialog.</para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Background Color</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The color square shows the current background color.  By
clicking this color square you open the standard KDE color selection
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Note Width</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The width of the note in pixels.  Edit this number as
desired.</para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Note Height</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The height of the note in pixels.  Edit this number as
desired.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="configuring-editor">
<title>Configuring the Editor in &knotes;</title>
<para>To customize the editor:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the panel
icon.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Preferences...</guimenuitem></para>
<para>The &knotes; <guilabel>Defaults - KNotes</guilabel> dialog will
open.</para></step> 
<step><para>Choose the <guiicon>Editor</guiicon> icon from the three
icons at the left.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The following choices are available:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Tab Size</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is the size of the tab in spaces.  Edit this number as
desired.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Auto Indent</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is a checkbox.  If selected, auto-indenting is
on.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Current Font: Click to Change</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Click this button to open the standard KDE font selection
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configuring-actions">
<title>Configuring Actions in &knotes;</title>

<para>To configure actions in &knotes;:</para>
<procedure><step><para>Right-click on the &knotes; panel
icon.</para></step><step>
<para>Select <guimenuitem>Preferences...</guimenuitem></para>
<para>The &knotes; <guilabel>Defaults - KNotes</guilabel> dialog will
open.</para></step>
<step><para>Choose the <guiicon>Actions</guiicon> icon from the three icons at the
left.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The following choices are available:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mail Action</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Type a mail command and any required command line switches in
this box.</para>
<para>By using <option>&quot;%f&quot;</option> in the command line you can pass
the filename of the note body to the mail command.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Print Action</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Type a printing command and any required command line switches
in this box.</para>
<para>Use the following variables in the command line:</para>
<para><option>&quot;%p&quot;</option> is the printer name.</para>
<para><option>&quot;%t&quot;</option> is the title.</para>
<para><option>&quot;%f&quot;</option> is the filename of the note body.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="using-knotes">
<title>Using &knotes;</title>

<sect1 id="create-new-note">
<title>Creating a New Note</title>

<para>To create a new note:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the &knotes; panel
icon.</para></step>
<step><para>Select New Note.</para></step>
</procedure>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="typing-the-note">
<title>Writing Your Note</title>

<para>To write your note, simply type the note in the space provided.  Normal
keyboard and mouse editing functions are supported.</para> 

<para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> clicking in the editing space provides the
following menu options:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Paste special...</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Clear</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Text may be selected by holding down the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton>
mouse button and moving the mouse, or by holding down the <keycap>Shift</keycap>
key and using the <keycap>arrow</keycap> keys.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="inserting-the-date">
<title>Inserting the Date</title>

<para>To insert the current date in the Note:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the title bar of the note.</para></step> 
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Insert Date</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The current date will be inserted at the cursor position in the text of
the note.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="renaming-a-note">
<title>Renaming a Note</title>

<para>To rename a note:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the note's title
bar.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>Type the new name of the note in the dialog that appears.  To accept the
new name, press the <guibutton>OK</guibutton> button.  To exit the dialog
without renaming the note, press the <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> button.  To
clear what you have typed and start over, click the <guibutton>Clear</guibutton>
button.</para>

</sect1>
<sect1 id="mailing-a-note">
<title>Mailing a Note</title>

<para>To mail a note:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the note's title
bar.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Mail</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>What happens next depends on how you configured the Mail action in the
<guilabel>Preferences...</guilabel> dialog.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="printing-a-note">
<title>Printing a Note</title>

<para>To print a note:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the note's title
bar.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Print</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>What happens next depends on how you configured the Print action in the
<guilabel>Preferences...</guilabel> dialog.</para>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="deleting-a-note">
<title>Deleting a Note</title>
<para>To delete a note:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the note's title
bar.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Delete Note</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="hiding-a-note">
<title>Hiding a Note</title>

<para>To hide a note, click the X in the upper right corner of the title bar of
the note.  The note will no longer be displayed on the screen.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="displaying-notes">
<title>Displaying Notes</title>

<para>When you start &knotes;, all notes will display on the screen.  If you
hide a note and later want to display it:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Right-click on the &knotes; panel icon.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Notes</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
<step><para>Choose the note you want to display.</para></step>
</procedure>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="desktop-functions">
<title>Desktop Functions</title>

<para>To send a note to a specific desktop:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the title bar of the
note.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>To Desktop</guimenuitem></para></step>
<step><para>Choose the desktop desired.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>To make the note remain on top of other windows:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the title bar of the
note.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Always on Top</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>To return the note to more normal window behavior, simply repeat this
process.</para> 

</sect1>

<sect1 id="CustomizingDisplay">
<title>Customizing a Note's Display</title>
<para>To customize a note's display:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para><guimenuitem>Right</guimenuitem> click on the note's
titlebar.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Note preferences...</guimenuitem>.</para>
<para>The <guilabel>Local Settings - Knotes</guilabel> dialog will
open.</para></step>
<step><para>Choose the <guiicon>Display</guiicon> icon from the three icons at
the left.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The following choices are available:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Text Color</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The color square shows the current text color.  By clicking this
color square you open the standard KDE color selection
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Background Color</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The color square shows the current text color.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Note Width</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The width of the note in pixels.  Edit this number as
desired.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Note Height</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The height of the note in pixels.  Edit this number as
desired.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="CustomizingEditor">
<title>Customizing a Note's Editor</title>

<para>To customize a note's editor:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the titlebar of the
note.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Note preferences...</guimenuitem></para>
<para>The <guilabel>Local Settings - Knotes</guilabel> dialog will
open.</para></step>
<step><para>Choose the <guiicon>Editor</guiicon> icon from the three icons at
the left.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The following choices are available:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Tab Size</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is the size of the tab in spaces.  Edit this number as
desired.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Auto Indent</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is a checkbox.  If selected, auto-indenting is
on.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Current Font: Click to Change</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Click this button to open the standard KDE font selection
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="CustomizingActions">
<title>Customizing a Note's Actions</title>
<para>To customize a note's actions:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the titlebar of the
note.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Note preferences...</guimenuitem></para>
<para>The <guilabel>Local Settings - Knotes</guilabel> dialog will
open.</para></step>
<step><para>Choose the <guiicon>Action</guiicon> icon from the three icons at
the left.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>The following choices are available</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mail Action</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Type a mail command and any required command line switches in
this box.</para> <para>By using <option>&quot;%f&quot;</option> in the command
line you can pass the filename of the note body to the mail
command.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Print Action</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Type a printing command and any required command line switches
in this box.</para>
<para>Use the following variables in the command line:</para>
<para><option>&quot;%p&quot;</option> is the printer name.</para>
<para><option>&quot;%t&quot;</option> is the title.</para>
<para><option>&quot;%f&quot;</option> is the filename of the note body.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="quit-knotes">
<title>Quitting &knotes;</title>
<para>To quit &knotes;:</para>
<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the panel
icon.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>.</para></step>
</procedure>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&knotes;</para>

<para>Program copyright 1997 Bernd Wuebben <email>wuebben@kde.org</email></para>

<para>Contributors:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Wynn Wilkes<email>wynnw@calderasystems.com</email></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation copyright 2000 Greg M. Holmes
<email>holmegm@earthlink.net</email></para>

&license-links;
</chapter>

<![ %addindex; [ &kdedocindex; ]]>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->
