<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<author><personname><firstname>Jan</firstname><surname>Schaumann</surname></personname>
<email></email></author>
<date>April 12, 2003</date>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>karm</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>karm</command></refname>
<refpurpose>A &kde; based time tracking tool.</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>&karm;</command>
<arg choice="opt">file</arg>
<group><option>KDE Generic Options</option></group>
<group><option>Qt Generic Options</option></group>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>

<para>&karm; tracks time spent on various tasks.  It is useful for
tracking hours to be billed to different clients, or just to find out
what percentage of your day was spent playing Doom or reading
Slashdot.</para>

<para>&karm; is part of the &kde; PIM package</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>file</option></term>
<listitem><para>The iCalendar file to open</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</refsect1>


<refsect1>
<title>Files</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>$<envar>KDEHOME</envar>/share/config/karmrc</filename></term>
<listitem><para>&karm; configuration data.  This file is not intended to be hand edited.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>$<envar>KDEHOME</envar>/share/apps/karm/karmdata.ics</filename></term>
<listitem><para>Default location of the file &karm; saves it's data to.  This is a standard ICS calendar file.  The location can be changed from within the &GUI;</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>$<envar>KDEHOME</envar>/share/apps/karm/karmdata.txt</filename></term>
<listitem><para>If you enable time logging to a text file, this is the default location.  The location of this file can be changed from within the application.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>

<para>see(1) other(2) manpages(3)</para>

<para>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/karm">help:/karm</ulink> (either enter this
<acronym>URL</acronym> into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/karm</parameter></userinput>).</para>

</refsect1>

<!-- <refsect1>
<title>Standards</title>

<para></para>

Investigate if the ICS files have an RFC (I am pretty sure they do)

</refsect1> -->

<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>

<para>Author information of the developer and man page writer</para>
</refsect1>


</refentry>
