<chapter id="configure">

<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
<surname>Naber</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>daniel.naber@t-online.de</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname>
<surname>Rugge</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>davidrugge@mediaone.net</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Marc</firstname>
<surname>Mutz</surname>
<affiliation>
<orgname>Klar&auml;lvdalens Datakonsult AB</orgname>
<address>
<email>mutz@kde.org</email>
</address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Michel</firstname>
<surname>Boyer de la Giroday</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>michel@kdab.net</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
<date>2004-07-13</date>
<releaseinfo>1.7</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Configure &kmail;</title>

<sect1 id="configure-generalinfo">
<title>General Information</title>

<para>&kmail;'s configuration window enables you to configure &kmail;
in many ways. You can reach it via
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&kmail;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

<para>It is divided into six
pages, each of them represented by one of the
icons in the list on the left hand side of the dialog. Below the pages
will be described in detail.</para>

<para>The dialog has several buttons:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Help</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This will open this manual at the appropriate page.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Defaults</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This will reset the configuration options on the current
page back to the default values.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Load Profile...</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This will open a dialog which offers several configuration
profiles. You can use these as starting points for your own configuration.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Reset</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This resets all changes you have made since you last saved
the settings.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>OK</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This saves the settings and closes the configuration dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Apply</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This saves the settings without closing the configuration
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Cancel</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This closes the configuration dialog without saving the
changes you have made.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configure-identity">
<title>Identities Page</title>

<para>You can find a quick introduction to the
<guilabel>Identities</guilabel> page in the <link
linkend="getting-started">Getting Started</link> section.</para>

<para>This page allows you to create one or more
<emphasis>Identities</emphasis>, &ie; combinations of name, email
address and other settings. For example, you can create one identity
for business communication and one for
personal communication. If you have more than one email
address, you can create one identity per address. You will then be
able to select an identity on a per-message basis.</para>

<para>The page consists of a list of identities and buttons to manage
them. The identities list will always show at
least one identity, which is then the <guilabel>Default</guilabel> 
identity.</para>

<para>To add a new identity to the identity list, click on the
<guibutton>New...</guibutton> button. 
The <link linkend="configure-identity-newidentitydialog">New identity</link> dialog
will then appear.</para>

<sect2 id="configure-identity-newidentitydialog">
<title>The <guilabel>New Identity</guilabel> Dialog</title>

<para>You have to enter the name of the new identity into the
<guilabel>New Identity</guilabel> edit field. This will be the name
shown in the identity list.</para>

<para>You can choose how the new identity should be initialized by
checking one of the three radio buttons in the middle of the
dialog:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>With empty fields</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>All fields of the new identity are cleared or preset with
standard values.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use Control Center settings</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Uses the settings of the <application>Control
Center</application>'s default email profile (you can edit that one
under <menuchoice><guimenu>Internet &amp; Network</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Email</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the
<application>Control Center</application>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Duplicate existing identity</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies all fields from an existing identity. You can
choose which identity to copy from by selecting the corresponding
entry in the <guilabel>Existing identities</guilabel> popup.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-identity-general">
<title>General</title>

<para>The <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab allows you to specify some
basic settings for the currently selected identity.</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Your name</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enter your full name here (sometimes also called <emphasis>display name</emphasis>).
Although this field is not strictly mandatory, it is recommended to enter 
the correct value here.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Organization</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enter your organization here. This field is optional.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Email address</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enter your email address here, &ie; something like 
<userinput>joe@example.com</userinput>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<example>
<title>Example</title>
<para>So if your address is <replaceable>Joe User
&lt;joe@example.com&gt;</replaceable>, you should enter <userinput>Joe
User</userinput> into the <guilabel>Your name</guilabel> field and
<userinput>joe@example.com</userinput> into the <guilabel>Email
address</guilabel> field.</para></example>
</sect2>

    <sect2 id="configure-identity-cryptography">
      <title>
	Cryptography
      </title>

      <para>
	The <guilabel>Cryptography</guilabel> tab allows you to
	specify &openpgp; and &smime; keys associated with this
	identity, as well as choosing the preferred (cryptographic)
	message format to use.
      </para>

      <variablelist>

	<varlistentry id="configure-identity-cryptography-openpgp-sign">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>OpenPGP signing key</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Here you can select the key to be used when
	      &openpgp;-signing messages written with this identity in
	      effect.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      For brevity, only the short key id of selected keys is
	      shown. Hovering with the mouse over the key list will
	      show more information in a tooltip.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      To clear the label press the
	      <guibutton>Clear</guibutton> button.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      To change the selected key, press the
	      <guibutton>Change...</guibutton> button. A dialog
	      listing all secret &openpgp; keys will be shown allowing
	      you to select the one to use.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	
	<varlistentry id="configure-identity-cryptography-openpgp-encrypt">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>OpenPGP encryption key</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Here you can select the key to &openpgp;-encrypt
	      messages to when this identity and <xref
	      linkend="configure-security-composing-encrypt-to-self"/>
	      are in effect. This key is also used for the <xref
	      linkend="composer-attach-attach-my-public-key"/>
	      function of the <link
	      linkend="the-composer-window">Composer</link>.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      To change the selected key, press the
	      <guibutton>Change...</guibutton> button. A dialog
	      listing all &openpgp; keys found in your keyring will be
	      shown allowing you to select the one to use.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      You can clear the list of keys and get more information
	      about them in the same way as described for <xref
	      linkend="configure-identity-cryptography-openpgp-sign"/>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	
	<varlistentry id="configure-identity-cryptography-smime-sign">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>&smime; signing certificate</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Here you can select the certificate to be used when
	      &smime;-signing messages written with this identity in
	      effect.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      To change the selected certificate, press the
	      <guibutton>Change...</guibutton> button. A dialog
	      listing all secret &smime; signing certificates will be
	      shown allowing you to select the one to use.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      You can clear the list of certificates and get more
	      information about them in the same way as described for
	      <xref linkend="configure-identity-cryptography-openpgp-sign"/>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	
	<varlistentry id="configure-identity-cryptography-smime-encrypt">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>&smime; encryption certificate</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Here you can select the certificate to &smime;-encrypt
	      messages to when this identity and <xref
	      linkend="configure-security-composing-encrypt-to-self"/>
	      are in effect.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      To change the selected certificate, press the
	      <guibutton>Change...</guibutton> button. A dialog
	      listing all &smime; encryption certificates found in
	      your local keybox will be shown allowing you to select
	      the one to use.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      You can clear the list of certificates and get more
	      information about them in the same way as described for
	      <xref linkend="configure-identity-cryptography-openpgp-sign"/>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-identity-cryptography-preferred-format">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Preferred crypto message format</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Here you can choose which cryptographic message format
	      to use by default with this identity.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      You can either select any of the four formats supported
	      by &kmail; or leave the option at the recommended
	      default setting of <guilabel>Any</guilabel>, which will
	      choose a suitable format based on the recipients of the
	      message, or might even go so far as to create two copies
	      of the message, one &smime; signed and/or encrypted, the
	      other &openpgp; signed and/or encrypted.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

      </variablelist>

    </sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-identity-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab allows you to specify some
rarely used or otherwise specialized settings for the currently
selected identity.</para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Reply-To address</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enter the address to which replies to your messages should be
sent. Only fill out this field if it is different from your normal
address (specified using the <guilabel>Name</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Email Address</guilabel> on the <link
linkend="configure-identity-general"><guilabel>General</guilabel>
tab</link>), since replies default to the sender's address
anyway.</para>
<note><para>This field is only useful if you want replies to your mail
to go somewhere else than your regular email address, &eg; if you are
using this identity to send messages from an email address that cannot
receive messages. Note that 
some mailing lists overwrite this header field with their post address to
make sure that replies go to the list instead of individuals. So the
usefulness of this field is very limited and it should only be used in
rare cases.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>BCC address</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Optionally enter an address to which blind copies of your messages
should be sent to. Note that a BCC is only send to this address, when
<menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>BCC</guimenuitem></menuchoice> 
is activated while composing a message. If you want to send a BCC regardless 
of this setting, you should look at the <guilabel>Headers</guilabel> tab of the
<guilabel>Composer</guilabel> page.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Sent-mail folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select the folder into which messages should be filed after sending
when using this identity. <acronym>IMAP</acronym> users should consider changing this to an 
<acronym>IMAP</acronym> folder, so their sent-mail is stored on a server instead of being 
stored in a local folder. This way they can access these messages at a 
different location.</para>

<tip><para>You can exercise more fine-grained control over where to
file sent messages by creating a corresponding <link
linkend="filters">message filter</link> that is applied to outgoing
messages.</para></tip>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Drafts folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select the folder into which drafts should be filed when using 
this identity. <acronym>IMAP</acronym> users should consider changing this to an 
<acronym>IMAP</acronym> folder, so their drafts are stored on a server instead of being 
stored in a local folder. This way they can easily continue to work
on their drafts at a different location.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Special transport</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select or enter an alternative SMTP server to be used when sending
messages using this identity.</para>

<note><para>You need to configure outgoing mail servers first, before
you can choose them from the list. You can do this on the <link
linkend="configure-accounts-sending"><guilabel>Sending</guilabel>
tab</link> of the <link linkend="configure-accounts">
<guilabel>Accounts</guilabel> page</link>.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-identity-signature">
<title>Signature</title>

<para>This tab allows you to specify a signature (sometimes called
<quote>footer</quote> or <quote>disclaimer</quote>)
to be appended to each message sent using this identity.</para>

<note><para>This type of signature has nothing to do with the
(digital) signatures for which you can select the keys to use on
the <link linkend="configure-identity-cryptography">Cryptography</link>
tab. It is just bad wording to call this a signature, but since
the term is already used everywhere else, we keep this notation. Just
keep in mind that these signatures and digital signatures are two
completely different things.</para></note>

<para>Check the <guilabel>Enable signature</guilabel> option if you
want to be able to append the signature when using this identity. To
<emphasis>automatically</emphasis> append it to every new message
you also have to select <guilabel>Automatically append
signature</guilabel> in the <guilabel>Composer</guilabel> configuration page.</para>

<para>&kmail; can obtain the signature text from various sources. The
traditional way on Unix is to read the text from a file called
<filename>.signature</filename> in your home folder. This file can
be shared between several programs, so you get the same
signature in each mail program you use.</para>

<para>To read the text from a text file you select
<guilabel>Obtain signature text from file</guilabel>. Enter the
filename in the <guilabel>Specify file</guilabel> edit field or hit
the button to the right of it to browse your filesystem. If you want
to edit the file, hit the <guilabel>Edit File</guilabel>
button.</para>

<para>&kmail; can also read the signature text from the output of a
command. Thus, you can use programs such as
<command>fortune</command> to create a new signature text for
every message. Everything the program prints onto
<acronym>stdout</acronym> is caught and used as the signature
text.</para>

<para>To read the text from the output of a command you select
<guilabel>Obtain signature text from Output of
Command</guilabel>. Enter the command (preferably with full path) in
the <guilabel>Specify command</guilabel> edit field.</para>

<para>As a third option, you can enter the signature text directly in
&kmail;'s configuration dialog. To do this, select <guilabel>Obtain
signature text from input field below</guilabel> and enter the text
into the appearing text box.</para>

<note><para>On the Internet, signatures are by convention separated
from the body of the message by a line containing only the three
character <quote>-- </quote> (dash, dash, space). &kmail; will
automatically prepend the signature text with this line if it is not
already present in the signature text.</para>
<para>If you do not wish the separator to be prepended
automatically by &kmail;, simply add it to the signature 
text yourself.</para>
</note>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configure-accounts">
<title>Accounts Page</title>

<para>You can find a quick introduction to the
<guilabel>Accounts</guilabel> page in the <link
linkend="setting-up-your-account">Setting up your Account</link>
section.</para>

<para>This page allows you to create one or more (incoming and
outgoing) <emphasis>accounts</emphasis>, &ie; combinations of mail
servers, login information and other settings. Typically, you will
create one outgoing (used for sending messages) and one incoming (used to
retrieve messages) account. You can create as many accounts as you want, though,
and assign each one to different <link
linkend="configure-identity">identities</link> or decide on a per-message
basis.</para>

<sect2 id="configure-accounts-sending">
<title>Sending</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Sending</guilabel> tab allows you to define new
outgoing mail servers and set some common options.</para>

<para>For basic information, see <link
linkend="sending-mail">Setting up your Account: Sending</link>.</para>

<para>When you click <guibutton>Add...</guibutton> or
<guibutton>Modify...</guibutton> the <guilabel>Add
transport</guilabel> or <guilabel>Modify transport</guilabel> dialogs
will open respectively. For sending via <application>sendmail</application>
or similar programs
you can specify a name and the location of the
<command>sendmail</command> program.  For <acronym>SMTP</acronym> you
can specify <guilabel>Name</guilabel>, <guilabel>Host</guilabel>, and
<guilabel>Port</guilabel> of the server.  <guilabel>Server requires
authentication</guilabel> will enable the <guilabel>Login</guilabel>
and <guilabel>Password</guilabel> fields and the
<guilabel>Authentication method</guilabel> buttons on the
<guilabel>Security</guilabel> tab. If you are not sure about the
security settings you can make &kmail; test for the best settings by
using <guibutton>Check What the Server Supports</guibutton>.</para>

<para><guilabel>Confirm before send</guilabel> will pop up a
confirmation box every time you send a message.</para>

<para><guilabel>Send messages in outbox folder</guilabel> lets you specify
when queued messages, &ie; messages in the outbox folder pending to be sent,
should be sent. You can choose between:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Never Automatically</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Queued messages will only be sent if you select 
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send queued messages</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>On Manual Mail Checks</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Queued messages will be sent after you have manually checked
for new mail, &eg; with <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Check Mail</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Of course, you can also
manually send the queued messages with
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send queued messages</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>On All Mail Checks</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Queued messages will be sent after all checks for new mail,
&ie; after automatic mail checks as well as after manual mail checks.
Of course, you can also manually send the queued messages with
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send queued messages</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para><guilabel>Default send method</guilabel> lets you define what
happens when a message is sent. If <guilabel>Send now</guilabel> is
selected, the message is sent to the mail server immediately, while if
<guilabel>Send later</guilabel> is selected, the message is queued in
the outbox to be sent later with the
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send
Queued Messages</guimenuitem></menuchoice> command or automatically when you
check your mail, depending on the setting of 
<guilabel>Send messages in outbox folder</guilabel> above.</para>

<para><guilabel>Message property</guilabel> lets you select how your
message will be encoded when it is sent. <guilabel>Allow
8-bit</guilabel> means that &kmail; will send your message in 8-bit
<acronym>ASCII</acronym>, which means that all special characters such
as accented letters will be sent as-is. If <guilabel>MIME Compliant
(Quoted Printable)</guilabel> is selected, special characters will be
encoded using standard &MIME; encodings, which may be more portable to
mailing systems other than 8-bit <acronym>ASCII</acronym>. 
We recommend to use <guilabel>MIME Compliant</guilabel>.</para>

<note><para>Even with <guilabel>Allow 8-bit</guilabel>
selected &kmail; will use <guilabel>MIME
Compliant</guilabel> encoding in some situations, for
example for sending cryptographically signed messages.</para></note>

<para><guilabel>Default domain</guilabel> lets you specify which domain name
should be used to complete email addresses that only consist of the recipient's user
name. For example when you set the default domain to <replaceable>kde.org</replaceable>
then messages you send to <replaceable>johndoe</replaceable> will be sent to 
<replaceable>johndoe@kde.org</replaceable>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-accounts-receiving">
<title>Receiving</title>

<para>For basic information, see <link
linkend="receiving-mail">Setting up your Account: Receiving</link>.</para>

<para><guilabel>Check mail on startup</guilabel> lets you specify whether
KMail should check for new mail immediately after it has been started.</para>

<para>With <guilabel>New Mail Notification</guilabel> you can set
how &kmail; will notify you if new messages have arrived:
<guilabel>Beep</guilabel> will play a short beep sound;
if <guilabel>Detailed new mail notification</guilabel> is enabled then
&kmail; will show the number of new messages for each folder provided
you have chosen to be notified with a dialog. More advanced 
notification options, like showing a dialog or running a certain command,
are available via the <guibutton>Other Actions</guibutton> button.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configure-appearance">
<title>Appearance Page</title>

<sect2 id="configure-appearance-fonts">
<title>Fonts</title>

<para>This section allows you to change the type, size and character set of the
display fonts. <guilabel>Message Body</guilabel> sets the font for
the reader pane, <guilabel>Composer</guilabel> sets the font for
writing messages in the composer window.<!-- fixme in kmail: better wording? -->
There is a separate entry for <guilabel>Message List - Date Field</guilabel>
so you can choose a monospaced font for the date field for better readability.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-appearance-colors">
<title>Colors</title>

<para>This section allows you to change the color of the text.
<guilabel>Recycle colors on deep quoting</guilabel> means that even text that is
quoted more than three times will appear in color. Note that the
<guilabel>Quoted text</guilabel> colors only work in the message reader, not in 
the composer.<!-- TODO --></para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-appearance-layout">
<title>Layout</title>

<para><guilabel>Show HTML status bar</guilabel> activates a bar at the left side of the reader
pane that tells you if a message is &html; or not. This is important because
&html; messages might imitate the look of a signed and encrypted message, so
you should be aware of the fact that you are reading a &html; message. The &html;
status bar itself cannot be influenced by the &html; code of the message.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Window Layout</guilabel> section lets you choose the 
layout of the main window. You can choose where you want the 
<guilabel>Message Preview Pane</guilabel> or choose not to have 
it at all.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Message Structure Viewer</guilabel> option lets you choose when
the structure viewer will be shown: the structure viewer is a part of the main window that
lets you access all parts of a message. <guilabel>Show never</guilabel> will
disable the structure viewer (note that you can still access attachments as icons),
<guilabel>Show always</guilabel> will show the structure viewer even if there is only
one plaintext part. <guilabel>Show only for non-plaintext messages</guilabel> will 
display the structure viewer only if it makes sense, &ie; if the current message
has attachments or has &html; parts.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-appearance-headers">
<title>Headers</title>

<para>With <guilabel>Display message sizes</guilabel> selected there will be another 
column in the header pane that shows the messages' size.</para>

<para><guilabel>Show crypto icons</guilabel> will add more status information
to the <guilabel>Subject</guilabel> columns in the header pane: every message
that has been signed will have a small <guiicon>Signed</guiicon> icon in front
of the subject, every message that has been encrypted will have a small
<guiicon>Encrypted</guiicon> icon in front of the subject. Note that you have
to select a message once before these icons will appear, until then only
question marks will be displayed.</para>

<para><guilabel>Thread list of message headers</guilabel> will put all the messages 
in the header pane in a kind of tree list, so that the replies to a message are 
directly below that message.</para>

<para>With <guilabel>Message header threading options</guilabel> you can select
whether threads should appear expanded (<guilabel>open</guilabel>) by
default or whether they should be collapsed (<guilabel>closed</guilabel>).
You can of course still open/close threads using the  <guilabel>+</guilabel>/<guilabel>-</guilabel>
buttons.</para> 

<para>With <guilabel>Date Display</guilabel> you can choose between several
date formats. The <guilabel>Localized Format</guilabel> is the one you can
specify under <guilabel>Country &amp; Language</guilabel> in &kcontrol;.
For the <guilabel>Custom</guilabel> format you can get
a description of the possible values by pressing
<keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo>
and then clicking on <guilabel>Custom</guilabel> option.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-appearance-systemtray">
<title>System Tray</title>

<para>If you enable the system tray icon then a small &kmail; icon with the
number of unread messages will be shown in the system tray. You can enable
&kmail;'s system tray icon with <guilabel>Enable system tray icon</guilabel>,
and with <guilabel>System Tray Mode</guilabel>
you can specify whether the tray icon should always be shown or only if
you have unread messages.</para>

<para>If the icon is visible then you can hide &kmail;'s main window by
clicking on the icon or by clicking on the window close button. By clicking
on the icon you can make &kmail;'s main window visible again.
If you click on the icon with the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton>
mousebutton then you get a menu with a few useful commands. You can check
for new mail, create a new message or quit &kmail;. Additionally, there is
the entry <guilabel>New Messages In</guilabel> which lists all folders
containing unread messages. If you choose one of those folders then this
folder will be selected in &kmail;'s main window.
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- fixme?: date + less than/greater than broken in kmail? -->
<!-- fixme?: "group" wording in program -->

</sect1>

  <sect1 id="configure-composer">
    <title>
      Composer Page
    </title>

    <sect2 id="configure-composer-general">
      <title>
	General
      </title>

      <variablelist>
	<varlistentry id="configure-composer-general-append-signature">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Automatically append signature</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, your signature as defined in the <link
	      linkend="configure-identity-signature">identity
	      page</link> is automatically included at the end of
              all messages you create (&ie; new messages, replies, &etc;).
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
	<varlistentry id="configure-composer-general-smart-quoting">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Use smart quoting</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will break long lines but will try
	      to keep the correct quoting (&eg; the <quote>&gt;
	      </quote> will always be at the start of the line).
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
	<varlistentry id="configure-composer-general-auto-request-mdns">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Automatically request message disposition notifications</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, <xref
	      linkend="composer-options-request-mdn"/> will default to
	      <emphasis>on</emphasis>. Check this option only if you
	      know what you are doing. &mdn;s are considered a
	      nuisance (or are simply ignored) by a lot of people. It
	      is better to decide to request them on a
	      message-by-message basis.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
	<varlistentry id="configure-composer-general-word-wrap">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Word wrap at column</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Lets you turn word wrapping on and off in the composer
	      window and lets you set the column at which words will
	      be wrapped (you probably should not need to change the
	      default value, which is <literal>78</literal>).
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
	<varlistentry id="configure-composer-general-autosave-interval">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Autosave interval</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
              A backup copy of the text in the composer window can be created
	      regularly. This option lets you specify the interval used to 
              create the backup. You can disable autosaving by setting it to 
              the value <literal>0</literal>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
	<varlistentry id="configure-composer-general-external-editor">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>External Editor</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If you do not like the Composer you can use a different
	      editor. Note that the composer window will still open
	      and the external editor will open as soon as you type
	      just one character in the body of the message. If you are
	      done, save the text and exit the editor. The text will
	      now appear in the composer window, where you can send
	      it. Note that your editor may not return immediately,
	      you have to use &eg;
	      <userinput>
		<command>
		  gvim <option>-f</option> <varname>%f</varname>
		</command>
	      </userinput> for <application>gvim</application>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
      </variablelist>

    </sect2>


<sect2 id="configure-composer-phrases">
<title>Phrases</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Phrases</guilabel> tab lets you define the automatically
generated lines that are added to message replies, forwarded messages, and the
character that is added in front of quoted text. 
There are special &percnt;-denoted characters that will insert certain
values, which are also displayed at the top of the <guilabel>Phrases</guilabel> section.
You can add reply phrases in languages other than
your default &kde; language using the <guibutton>Add...</guibutton> button.
You can then choose between different languages with the
<guilabel>Language</guilabel> drop down box.
This will only work for languages whose i18n package you have installed.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-composer-subject">
<title>Subject</title>

<para>This section contains a list of prefixes for <quote>Reply</quote> and
<quote>Forward</quote>. If you receive messages that use prefixes different
to the standard ones, you can add them here so &kmail; will recognize 
them. This way &kmail; can ignore them for sorting messages and
when setting the subject of a reply or a forwarded messages, and optionally 
replace them with <quote>Re:</quote> or <quote>Fwd:</quote> 
respectively.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-composer-charset">
<title>Charset</title>

<para>Here you can manage the default charsets used for your own messages. 
Every message you send will be checked if it is written in one of the listed
charsets, starting at the top of the list. If it is, this charset will be used.
If it is not, a dialog will show up and tell you that you manually have to choose
a charset using 
<menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guisubmenu>Set Encoding</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.
</para>

<para>If you select <guilabel>Keep original charset when replying
or forwarding (if possible)</guilabel>, the original message's charset
will be kept, unless there are now characters that cannot be
represented using that charset.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-composer-headers">
<title>Headers</title>

<para>Check the <guilabel>Use custom message-id suffix</guilabel>
checkbox if you want &kmail; to generate Message-Id's with a custom
suffix. Enter the desired suffix in the <guilabel>Custom message-id
suffix</guilabel> field. Please make sure that the suffix that you
specify is world-wide unique. The best thing is to use the name of a
domain which you are the owner of. If you do not check <guilabel>Use
custom Message-Id suffix</guilabel> then &kmail; will automatically
generate the complete Message-Id. If you do not know what this is all
about do not check this option.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Define custom mime header fields</guilabel> list
sets the headers that &kmail; will use for its outgoing messages. You
can both invent new fields and overwrite existing ones. This feature
is only useful for advanced users.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-composer-attachments">
<title>Attachments</title>

<para>If you have to send attachments with filenames containing non-English 
characters to users of Outlook(TM) or Outlook Express(TM) then you might want
to check the <guilabel>Outlook-compatible attachment naming</guilabel> option.
&kmail; will then encode the attachment names in a non-standard way that is
understood by Outlook(TM).</para>
<para>Note that &kmail; will create non-standard compliant messages, and
consequently it is possible that your messages will not be understood by
standard-compliant mail clients. So, unless you have no other choice, you
should not enable this option.</para>

<para>Check the <guilabel>Enable detection of missing attachments</guilabel>
checkbox if you want &kmail; to warn you whenever you are about to send a
message without attachments although the message text contains certain
words which indicate that you wanted to include an attachment. The list
of key words can be modified.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

  <sect1 id="configure-security">
    <title>
      Security Page
    </title>

    <sect2 id="configure-security-reading">
      <title>
	Reading
      </title>

      <para>
	On this tab you can configure security-relevant options for
	reading messages.
      </para>

      <variablelist>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-reading-prefer-html">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Prefer HTML to plain text</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will show &html; messages with their
	      &html; formatting and layout. We strongly recommend to
	      leave this option off, as security problems with &html;
	      might show up. When this option is off, you can still
	      read &html; messages, but only as plain text.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-reading-external-references">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Allow messages to load external references from the Internet</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; can load external images, style
	      sheets &etc; from the Internet when you look at an
	      &html; message. We strongly recommend to leave this
	      option off (although it has no effect if you only view
	      plain text messages). By adding external references to
	      their messages, people sending spam can detect that and
	      when you have looked at their message. Note that this
	      option has no effect on &Java;, JavaScript and Plugins -
	      these are disabled anyway and cannot be enabled at all.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-reading-mdns">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Message Disposition Notifications</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      &mdn;s are a generalization of what is commonly called a
	      <quote>read receipt</quote>. The message author requests
	      a disposition notification to be sent and the receiver's
	      mail program generates a reply from which the author can
	      learn what happened to his message. Common disposition
	      types include <quote>displayed</quote> (&ie; read),
	      <quote>deleted</quote> and <quote>dispatched</quote>
	      (&eg; forwarded).
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      The following options (listed as <guilabel>Send
	      policy</guilabel>) are available to control
	      <emphasis>when</emphasis> &kmail; sends &mdn;s:
	    </para>
	    <variablelist>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Ignore</guilabel> (recommended)
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    Ignores any request for disposition
		    notifications. No &mdn; will ever be sent
		    automatically.
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Ask</guilabel>
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    Answers requests only after asking the user for
		    permission. This way, you can send &mdn;s for
		    selected messages while denying or ignoring them
		    for others.
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Deny</guilabel>
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    Always sends a <quote>denied</quote>
		    notification. This is only
		    <emphasis>slightly</emphasis> better than always
		    sending &mdn;s. The author will still know that
		    the messages has been acted upon, he just cannot
		    tell whether it was deleted or read &etc;
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Always send</guilabel>
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    Always sends the requested disposition
		    notification. That means that the author of the
		    message gets to know when the message was acted
		    upon and, in addition, what happened to it
		    (displayed, deleted, &etc;). This option is
		    strongly discouraged, but since it makes sense
		    where privacy is not a concern, &eg; in customer
		    relationship management, it has been made
		    available.
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	    </variablelist>
	    <para>
	      If you are unsure, experiment a while with
	      <guilabel>Ask</guilabel> and if you find &kmail;s
	      questions annoying, switch to <guilabel>Ignore</guilabel>.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      The following options (listed as <guilabel>Quote
	      original message</guilabel>) are available to control
	      <emphasis>how much</emphasis> of the original message
	      &kmail; sends back in &mdn;s.
	    </para>
	    <variablelist>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Nothing</guilabel>
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    No parts of the message other than the mandatory
		    message-id and the original recipient is included
		    in the &mdn; reply. This preserves enough
		    information for the sender to find the message in
		    his sent messages for which this &mdn; was
		    generated.
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Full message</guilabel>
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    Attaches the complete message to the disposition
		    notification. Usually, this is overkill. It does
		    not add any valueable information that cannot be
		    deduced from the message headers alone, but people
		    sometimes insist on this, since it is much easier
		    for humans to correlate the content of the message
		    than just the headers to what they sent earlier.
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	      <varlistentry>
		<term>
		  <guilabel>Only headers</guilabel>
		</term>
		<listitem>
		  <para>
		    Attaches only the headers to the disposition
		    notification. This is usually enough to enable
		    both humans (by subject) and computers (by
		    message-id) to easily correlate &mdn; and original
		    message.
		  </para>
		</listitem>
	      </varlistentry>
	    </variablelist>
	    <para>
	      If unsure, leave the option at the default.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Do not send MDNs in response to encrypted messages</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      This option suppresses the sending of &mdn;s if the
	      message is encrypted (partially or in whole). This
	      thwarts attempts to use &kmail;'s &mdn; feature as an
	      <emphasis>oracle</emphasis> to deduce whether you were
	      able to decrypt the message or not.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      Strictly speaking, this option is not needed, since
	      &kmail; sends &mdn;s regardless of whether the message
	      could be successfully decrypted or not (the disposition
	      notification request resides in the unencrypted part of
	      the message), but it gives the security-conscious user
	      the choice to either send them always if requested
	      (option unchecked), or never (option checked).
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      If unsure, leave the option checked.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Automatically import keys and certificates</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; automatically imports any attachments
	      containing &openpgp; keys into your local keyring, and any
	      attachments containing &smime; keys into your local key
	      box.
	    </para>
	    <note>
	      <para>
		Verifying &smime; signatures always involves importing
		the contained certificates. This option thus does not
		affect this. It is also unrelated to &gpg;'s
		<option>auto-key-retrieve</option> feature, where &gpg;
                will try to import unknown keys from a key server.
	      </para>
	    </note>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
      </variablelist>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="configure-security-composing">
      <title>
	Composing
      </title>

      <para>
	On this tab you can configure security-relevant options for
	composing messages.
      </para>

      <variablelist>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-composing-automatically-sign">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Automatically sign messages</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, the <xref
	      linkend="composer-options-sign-message"/> option in the
	      composer will default to <emphasis>on</emphasis>.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      However, you can still switch it on and off on a
	      per-message basis.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-composing-encrypt-to-self">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Always encrypt to self</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, any message that is encrypted to the
	      recipients will additionally be encrypted to yourself.
	    </para>
	    <warning>
	      <para>
		If you uncheck this option, you may not be able to
		decrypt the messages written by yourself and encrypted
		to other people anymore.
	      </para>
	    </warning>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-composing-store-sent-encrypted">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Store sent messages encrypted</guilabel><!--
	    --><footnote>
	      <para>
		This options enables a mode of using mail encryption
		that is sometimes (misleadingly) called
		<quote>transport-only</quote> encryption. In this mode
		of operation, the message encryption is stripped off
		as soon as the message has reached its
		destination. The encryption lasts only while the
		message is on its way.
	      </para>
	      <para>
		&kmail; supports this mode half-heartedly, since such
		functionality should better placed at the mail
		<emphasis>server</emphasis> (<acronym>MTA</acronym>)
		than at the mail <emphasis>client</emphasis>
		(<acronym>MUA</acronym>) level. Thus, future versions
		of &kmail; may drop support for this option.
	      </para>
	    </footnote>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, messages are stored in your
	      <guilabel>sent-mail</guilabel> folder just as you sent
	      them (&ie; if they were encrypted, they are also stored
	      that way).
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      If unchecked, messages will <emphasis>always</emphasis>
	      be stored unencrypted in your
	      <guilabel>sent-mail</guilabel> folder, even if they are
	      sent encrypted.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-composing-show-encryption-key">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Always show the encryption keys for approval</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, everytime you encrypt a message, a dialog
	      will appear that presents you with the encryption keys
	      that will be used for each recipient. You can then
	      review the choice of keys, change them, and approve or
	      cancel the encryption operation. We recommend to keep
	      this option checked, since it makes the encryption
	      process more transparent.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-composing-opportunistic-encryption">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Automatically encrypt messages whenever possible</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Also called <quote>opportunistic encryption</quote>. If
	      checked, &kmail; will try to match recipients to
	      (&openpgp; or &smime;) keys even when you did
	      <emphasis>not</emphasis> specifically request
	      encryption. If usable keys are found for all recipients,
	      &kmail; will ask whether or not you want to encrypt the
	      message.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      It is highly recommended to turn this on, as it makes
	      encrypting messages really easy to use.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-composing-never-sign-encrypt-drafts">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Never sign/encrypt when saving as draft</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will not attempt to sign and/or
	      encrypt messages that are merely saved to the
	      <guilabel>drafts</guilabel> folder. This is more
	      convenient, and does not result in a gross loss of
	      security, provided the drafts folder is safe. &imap;
	      users might want this options turned off, if their
	      <guilabel>drafts</guilabel> folder is on the server.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

      </variablelist>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="configure-security-warnings">
      <title>
	Warnings
      </title>

      <para>
	On this tab you can switch security-relavant warnings on and
	off.
      </para>

      <variablelist>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-warnings-warn-send-unsigned">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Warn when trying to send unsigned messages</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will show a warning if for whatever
	      reason a message would be sent without being digitally
	      signed.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-warnings-warn-send-unencrypted">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Warn when trying to send unencrypted messages</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will show a warning if for whatever
	      reason a message would be sent without being encrypted.
	    </para>
	    <note>
	      <para>
		While it is common to sign all outgoing messages,
		encrypting them is not. So unless your company has a
		policy of never sending any unencrypted messages, it
		might be a good idea to keep this option switched off
		and rely on <link
		linkend="configure-security-composing-opportunistic-encryption">opportunistic
		encryption</link> to alert you if you
		<emphasis>could</emphasis> send encrypted messages,
		but did not request it.
	      </para>
	    </note>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-warnings-warn-receiver-email-not-in-cert">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Warn if receiver's email address is not in certificate</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will emit a warning if an &smime;
	      certifciate or &openpgp; key will be used for a recipient
	      whose email address is not listed in the email addresses
	      stored in the certificate.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      Situations in which this warning will trigger include
	      when configuring your per-identity &openpgp; keys or
	      &smime; certificates, when encrypting, and when verifying
	      signatures, if the signature was made with a certificate
	      that does not include the email address of the sender.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-warnings-warn-near-expire">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Warn if certificates/keys expire soon</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &kmail; will warn when an &smime; certificate
	      or &openpgp; key is used which will expire soon.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      The period in which to warn before key/certificate
	      expiration can then be configured separately for signing
	      and encryption keys, as well as (in the case of &smime;),
	      for end-user certificates, intermediate
	      <acronym>CA</acronym> certificates and root
	      certificates.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-security-warnings-reenable-all-warnings">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Re-Enable All &quot;Don&apos;t Ask Again&quot; Warnings</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Apart from the main warnings described above, there are
	      more warning and information messages, which contain an
	      option to not show them again. If you would like to
	      re-enable them after choosing not to show them again,
	      you can achieve this by pressing this button.<!--
	      --><footnote>
		<para>
		  This will re-enable <emphasis>all</emphasis> such
		  warnings for &kmail;. It does not make much sense to
		  allow more fine-grained selection of which warnings
		  to show since you can just check the option to
		  suppress them again when they next show up.
		</para>
	      </footnote>
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

      </variablelist>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="configure-security-smime-validation">
      <title>
	&smime; Validation
      </title>

      <para>
	This tab contains selected entries from &gpgsm;'s <link
	linkend="configure-security-crypto-backends-configure">dynamic
	backend configuration dialog</link>. Please refer
	to the &gpgsm; manual for a description of these options.
      </para>

      <variablelist>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-validation-certificate-crls">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Validate certificates using CRLs</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If checked, &smime; certificates are validated using 
	      Certificate Revocation Lists (<acronym>CRLs</acronym>).
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-validation-certificate-ocps">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Validate certificates online (OCSP)</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If this option is selected, &smime; certificates are validated 
              using the Online Certificates Status Protocol 
              (<acronym>OCSP</acronym>).
            </para>
            <para>
              Fill in the <acronym>URL</acronym> of the <acronym>OCSP</acronym>
              responder in the field reserved at this effect.  
	    </para> 
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-online-certificate-responder-url">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>OCSP responder URL</guilabel>
          </term>
         <listitem>
	      <para>
		Enter the address of the server for online validation
		of certificates. The <acronym>URL</acronym>
                is usually starting with <emphasis>http://</emphasis>. 
	      </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-online-certificate-responder-signature">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>OCSP responder signature</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	       Select or change and enter the &smime; key to use.
            </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-online-certificate-responder-ignore">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Ignore service URL of certificates</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Check this option to skip online validation using the OCSP.
	      This Option requires <emphasis>dirmngr &gt;= 0.9.0</emphasis>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-validation-policies">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Do not check certificate policies</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      By default, <guilabel>GnuPG</guilabel> uses the file 
              <emphasis>~/.gnupg/policies.txt</emphasis> to check if a
              certificate policy is allowed. If this option is selected,
              policies are not checked.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-validation-consult-crls">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Never consult a CRLs</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If this option is checked, Certificate Revocation Lists are 
              never used to validate <acronym>&smime;</acronym> certificates.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-validation-fetch-issuer">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Fetch missing issuer certificates</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Check this option if you want the missing issuer certificates
              to be fetched when necessary. This applies to both validation 
              methods, <acronym>CRLs</acronym> and <acronym>OCSP</acronym>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-http-ignore-distribution-point">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Ignore HTTP CRL Distribution Point of certificates</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	     When looking for the location of a <acronym>CRL</acronym>, 
             <quote>the "to be tested"</quote>certificate usually contains 
             so called CRL Distribution Point (<acronym>DP</acronym>) entries 
             which are <acronym>URLs</acronym> describing the way to access 
             the <acronym>URL</acronym>. The first found <acronym>DP</acronym>
             entry is used.  
             With this option all entries using the <acronym>HTTP</acronym>
             scheme are ignored when looking for a suitable 
             <acronym>DP</acronym>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-http-requests">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Don't perform any HTTP requests</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	     Entirely disables the use of <acronym>HTTP</acronym> for 
             <acronym>&smime;</acronym>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-http-proxy">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Use system HTTP proxy</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	     If this option is selected, the value of the 
             <acronym>HTTP</acronym> proxy shown on the right 
             (which comes from the environment variable http_proxy) 
             will be used for any <acronym>HTTP</acronym> request.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-http-requests-proxy">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Use this proxy for HTTP requests</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Enter here the location of your <acronym>HTTP</acronym> Proxy, 
              which will be used for all <acronym>HTTP</acronym> requests 
              relating to <acronym>&smime;</acronym>. 
              The syntax is <quote>"host:port"</quote>, for instance 
              <emphasis>myproxy.nowhere.com:3128</emphasis>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-ldap-distribution-point">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Ignore LDAP CRL Distribution Point of certificates</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	     When looking for the location of a <acronym>CRL</acronym>, 
             the <quote>"to be tested"</quote> certificate usually contains 
             so called CRL Distribution Point (<acronym>DP</acronym>) entries 
             which are <acronym>URLs</acronym> describing the way to access 
             the <acronym>URL</acronym>. 
             The first found <acronym>DP</acronym> entry is used.  
             With this option all entries using the <acronym>LDAP</acronym>
             scheme are ignored when looking for a suitable 
             <acronym>DP</acronym>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-ldap-requests">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Don't perform any LDAP requests</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	     Entirely disables the use of <acronym>LDAP</acronym> for 
             <acronym>&smime;</acronym>.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="configure-smime-certificate-ldap-proxy-host">
	  <term>
	    <guilabel>Proxy host for LDAP requests</guilabel>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	     Entering a <acronym>LDAP</acronym> server here will make all 
             <acronym>LDAP</acronym> requests go to that server first. 
             More precisely, this setting overrides any specified host 
             and port part in a <acronym>LDAP URL</acronym> and will also 
             be used if host and port have been ommitted from the 
             <acronym>URL</acronym>. Other <acronym>LDAP</acronym> servers 
             will be used only if the connection to the 
             <emphasis>proxy</emphasis> failed.
             The syntax is <acronym>HOST</acronym> or 
             <acronym>HOST:PORT</acronym>. If <acronym>PORT</acronym> is 
             ommitted, <quote>port 389</quote> 
             (standard <acronym>LDAP</acronym> port) is used.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

      </variablelist>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="configure-security-crypto-backends">
      <title>
	Crypto Backends
      </title>

      <para>
	On this tab you can configure which crypto backends are to be
	used for &openpgp; and &smime; cryptographic operations (such
	as signing and encrypting).
      </para>

      <para>
	On the right-hand side, you see a list of available
	backends. Below each backend entry, you can see what protocols
	(&openpgp; and/or &smime;) the backend supports. If a protocol
	is not listed, the backend does not support it. If it is
	listed, but greyed out, the backend supports the protocol, but
	some required programs were not found, or other errors
	occurred during initialization. If you press
	<guibutton>Rescan</guibutton>, a dialog box will appear that
	lists reasons for the initialization failure.
      </para>

      <para id="configure-security-crypto-backends-configure">
	To configure a backend, select it in the list of available
	backends and press <guibutton>Configure...</guibutton>. The
	per-backend configuration dialog is dynamically created from
	the information returned by the backend. It may therefore
	change if you update the backend applications, although
	&kmail; itself is unchanged. If the
	<guibutton>Configure...</guibutton> button is disabled, the
	backend does not support a backend configuration dialog.
      </para>

      <para>
	Please refer to the manuals of the applications underlying
	each backend for a description of the options presented in the
	backend configuration dialogs.
      </para>

      <para>
	In front of each backend's protocol entries, you can see a
	checkbox, with which you select which backend is to be used
	for a given protocol. These checkboxes are exclusive per
	protocol, meaning that if you select a backend to perform
	&openpgp; operations, any previously selected &openpgp;
	implementation will be unselected, but the &smime; backend
	selection will be unchanged. If no backend is selected for a
	given protocol, that protocol is effectively disabled for use
	in &kmail;.
      </para>

    </sect2>

  </sect1> <!-- configure-security -->

<sect1 id="configure-misc">
<title>Misc Page</title>

<sect2 id="configure-misc-folders">
<title>Folders</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Ask for confirmation before moving all messages to trash</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option if you want to be asked for confirmation whenever
you use <menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>Move All Messages to Trash</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Exclude important messages from expiry</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option if important messages should never be deleted
during message expiration, &ie; during automatic deletion of old
messages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="configure-misc-folders-go-unread">
<term><guilabel>When trying to find unread messages</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This option controls what happens if you press one of the shortcuts to
go to the next or previous unread message (&eg; <keycap>Space</keycap>).
If you ask &kmail; to go to the next unread message although there is no
unread message below the currently selected message then the following happens:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>If <guilabel>Do not Loop</guilabel> is selected then nothing will happen.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If <guilabel>Loop in Current Folder</guilabel> is selected then &kmail; 
will search from the beginning of the current folder for an unread message. If
none is found then nothing happens.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If <guilabel>Loop in All Folders</guilabel> is selected then &kmail;
will first search in the current folder for another unread message. If none
is found then &kmail; will search the next folder containing unread messages.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
Correspondingly, if you ask &kmail; to go to the previous unread message.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Jump to first unread message when entering a folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is enabled &kmail; will go to the first unread message
when you enter a folder; if it is not enabled, &kmail; will go to first
new message or, if there is no new message, to the message
that was selected when you last left the folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mark selected message as read after...</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When you select a <guilabel>new</guilabel> or 
<guilabel>unread</guilabel> message, &kmail; will change the
message's status to <guilabel>read</guilabel> after the number of seconds
entered here. If you disable this option, messages will keep their
<guilabel>new</guilabel> or <guilabel>unread</guilabel> status.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Ask for action after dragging messages to another folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When you drag a message to a different folder, a small popup will ask
you if you want to move or copy the message. If you disable this option,
the message will be moved immediately, without a popup.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>By default, message folders on disk are...</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Here you can set the default <link linkend="folders-format">folder format</link>
that is used when you create a new folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Open this folder on startup</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Here you can set the folder that should be selected by default if you
start &kmail;. If you use only &imap; folders then you might want to set
this to your &imap; inbox folder. If you do that, you can collapse the local 
folders in the folder list, and then they will stay collapsed when &kmail; 
starts.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Empty trash on program exit</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The trash folder is cleared of messages when you quit &kmail; if this
option is selected.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="configure-misc-groupware">
<title>Groupware</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable IMAP resource functionality</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Makes it possible to store the entries from the Kontact applications (KOrganizer, KAddressBook and KNotes). This option has to be set whenever you are configuring Kontact as a <guilabel>KDE Kolab client</guilabel>. This option being enabled you will also need to add the appropriate resources from the <guilabel>KDE Control Center</guilabel> (kcontrol) in the <guilabel>KDE Resources Configuration</guilabel> section. <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> resources have to be added in case the resource functionality applies to a <guilabel>KDE Kolab client</guilabel> set-up.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry id="configure-misc-format-groupware-folders">
<term><guilabel>Format used for the groupware folders</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose the storage format for the groupware folders</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Default format is <guilabel>Standard (Ical/Vcard)</guilabel> for calendar folders (Ical) and addressbook folders (Vcard). This makes all Kontact features available.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> users should choose <guilabel>Kolab XML</guilabel>. This format uses a custom model that matches more closely to the one used in Microsoft Outlook(tm) and gives better compatibility.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Language of the groupware folders</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose between the available languages to set the folder names of the <guilabel>IMAP</guilabel> storage to your local language. Note that this option is only aimed for compatibility with Microsoft Outlook(tm). It is not recommended to change its default unless you have to, since it makes changing languages impossible.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Resource folders are in account</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select the parent of the <guilabel>IMAP</guilabel> resource folders. You should select the name of your <guilabel>IMAP/DIMAP</guilabel> account. By default the <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> server sets the <guilabel>IMAP</guilabel> inbox to be the parent.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Hide groupware folders</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>You should not need to see the folders that hold the  <guilabel>IMAP</guilabel> resources. However if you want to see them, you can set that by enabling this option.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mangle From:/To: headers in replies to invitations</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option to make Microsoft Outlook(tm) understand your answers to invitations replies.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Send invitations in the mail body</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Invitations use to be send as attachments to a mail. By enabling this option, you let the invitation mails to be sent in the text of the mail, which is necessary to send invitations and replies to Microsoft Outlook(tm).</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>


</sect1>

</chapter>
