<chapter id="getting-started">

<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
<surname>Naber</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>daniel.naber@t-online.de</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname>
<surname>Rugge</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>davidrugge@mediaone.net</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Michel</firstname>
<surname>Boyer de la Giroday</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>michel@klaralvdalens-datakonsult.se</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
<date>2004-07-13</date>
<releaseinfo>1.7</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Getting Started</title>

<para>This is a short introduction to &kmail; and its usage so you can
start working with it right away. For more in-depth information see the
<link linkend="using-kmail">Using &kmail;</link> section. Note that
&kmail;'s installation is described in <link linkend="installation">the
appendix</link>.</para>

<para>Invoking &kmail; for the first time creates a folder called
<filename class="directory">Mail</filename> in your home folder.
This folder contains the initial folders
(<filename class="directory">inbox</filename>, <filename class="directory">outbox</filename>,
<filename class="directory">sent-mail</filename>, <filename class="directory">trash</filename> and
<filename class="directory">drafts</filename>). Use <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure
&kmail;...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice> to enter some initial information
so &kmail; will be able to properly retrieve and send your
messages.</para>

<para>The Configure window consists of six sections:
<guilabel>Identities</guilabel>, <guilabel>Network</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Appearance</guilabel>, <guilabel>Composer</guilabel>, 
<guilabel>Security</guilabel>, and
<guilabel>Misc</guilabel>.</para>

<para>To begin sending and receiving messages you will only have to
change some settings in the <guilabel>Identities</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Network</guilabel> pages.</para>

  <sect1 id="setting-your-identity">
    <title>
      Setting your Identity
    </title>

    <para>
      The settings in the <guilabel>Identities</guilabel> page are
      fairly straightforward. Select your default identity and click
      <guibutton>Modify</guibutton>.  Fill in the <guilabel>Your
      name</guilabel> field with your full name (&eg; <userinput>John
      Doe</userinput>) and the <guilabel>Organization</guilabel> field
      (optional) with the appropriate information.
    </para>
    <para>
      Next, fill in the <guilabel>Email address</guilabel> field with
      your email address (&eg; <userinput>john@example.net</userinput>).
    </para>
    <para>
      If you are using <application>PGP</application> or
      <application>GnuPG</application> you can set your &openpgp; keys
      and/or &smime; certificates in the <link
      linkend="configure-identity-cryptography"><guilabel>Cryptography</guilabel></link>
      tab.
    </para>
    <para>
      Optionally, go to the <guilabel>Signature</guilabel> tab and
      enter your signature. This is a short text that will be
      automatically appended to all your messages. It has nothing to
      do with <emphasis>digital signatures</emphasis>.
    </para>

  </sect1>

<sect1 id="setting-up-your-account">
<title>Setting up your Account</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Network</guilabel> page contains the settings that
tell &kmail; how to send and receive your email messages. Many of these settings
can vary greatly depending on the setup of your system and on the kind
of network that your mail server is located in. If you do not know what
setting to choose or what to put in a field, consult your Internet
Service Provider (<acronym>ISP</acronym>) or system
administrator.</para>

<sect2 id="sending-mail">
<title>Sending Messages</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Sending</guilabel> tab provides a list of
ways to send messages. The first item in the list is the default
way to send messages. Using the <guibutton>Add...</guibutton>
button you can choose between two different ways of sending messages:
<guilabel>SMTP</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Sendmail</guilabel>. &Sendmail; here
means a local software installation -- this has a
reputation of being difficult to set up, so if you do not already have a
working &Sendmail; configuration, choose
<guilabel>SMTP</guilabel> and fill in the <guilabel>Name</guilabel>
field with a descriptive name 
(&eg; <userinput>My Mail Account</userinput>)
and the <guilabel>Host</guilabel>
field with the name and domain of your mail server 
(&eg; <userinput>smtp.provider.com</userinput>). You will probably
not need to change the <guilabel>Port</guilabel> setting (the default is
<userinput>25</userinput>).</para>

<!-- TODO: more specific link -->
<para>If you do want to use &Sendmail; and you are using a dial-up
connection, follow the instructions for setting up sendmail for a
dial-up connection in the <link linkend="faq">&FAQ;</link>
section.</para>

<para>The way of sending messages configured here will be used for
your default identity and for all other identities that have no own
way of sending messages. You can use different ways of sending
messages for different identities by selecting the <guilabel>Special
transport</guilabel> checkbox in the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel>
tab of the <guilabel>Identities</guilabel> section.</para>

<para>A description of the other options can be found
in the <link linkend="configure-accounts-sending">Configuration</link>
chapter.</para>


<sect3 id="sending-mail-kolab">
<title>Options relevant to <acronym>Kolab</acronym> server</title>

<para>When configuring a <guilabel>SMTP</guilabel> account with a <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> server Host, you need to check the <guilabel>Server requires authentification</guilabel> option and to fill in your <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> user's email address and password in the <guilabel>Login</guilabel> and <guilabel>Password</guilabel> fields. Select then the <guilabel>Security</guilabel> tab and click on the <guibutton>Check What the Server Supports</guibutton> for automated setup of your <guilabel>Security</guilabel> configuration. The default should be <guilabel>TLS/PLAIN</guilabel>. The <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> server supports  <guilabel>SSL/PLAIN</guilabel> as well. Those settings may of course be configured manually.</para>
</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="receiving-mail">
<title>Receiving Messages</title>

<para>To set up an account so you can receive mail, press the
<guibutton>Add...</guibutton> button in the <guilabel>Receiving</guilabel>
tab. You will then be prompted for the type of your email account.  Most users should
select <guilabel>POP3</guilabel> or <guilabel>IMAP</guilabel>. If
you want to use a local mailbox file, please see the <link linkend="faq-file-locking">FAQ
about file locking</link>.</para>
        
<para>You will then be presented with
the <guilabel>Add account</guilabel> window. First, fill in the
<guilabel>Name</guilabel> field to name your account. You can choose any name
you like.  <guilabel>Login</guilabel>, <guilabel>Password</guilabel>, and
<guilabel>Host</guilabel> should be filled in with the appropriate information
from your <acronym>ISP</acronym> or system administrator. You should not
need to change the <guilabel>Port</guilabel> setting (the default for POP3 is
<userinput>110</userinput>, the default for <acronym>IMAP</acronym> is
<userinput>143</userinput>).</para>

<sect3 id="receiving-mail-kolab">
<title>Options relevant to <acronym>Kolab</acronym> server</title>
<para>
select <guilabel>Disconnected IMAP</guilabel> when choosing your <guilabel>Account Type</guilabel>. Fill in the <guilabel>Login</guilabel> and <guilabel>Password</guilabel> fields with respectively your user email address and password on the <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> server. In the <guilabel>Security</guilabel> section click on the <guilabel>Check What the Server Support</guilabel> button for automated set-up of your <guilabel>Security</guilabel> configuration. The default should be <guilabel>TLS/PLAIN</guilabel>. The <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> server supports <guilabel>SSL/PLAIN</guilabel> as well. Those settings may of course be configured manually.</para>
<para>
If you want to use the <guilabel>"Out of Office" Replies</guilabel> functionality of the <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> server, set-up the <guilabel>Filtering</guilabel> section of you <guilabel>DIMAP</guilabel> account by checking the <guilabel>Server supports Sieve</guilabel> option as well as <guilabel>Reuse host and login configuration</guilabel>, <guilabel>Managesieve port</guilabel> should be set to 2000 as default. 
</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="receiving-mail-dimap-misc">
<title>Options only relevant to DIMAP (<acronym>Kolab</acronym> server)</title>
<para>
After having configured your <guilabel>Disconnect IMAP</guilabel> account, you 
need to activate the <guilabel>Groupware</guilabel> functionalities and set-up 
the <guilabel>Misc</guilabel> page for <guilabel>KMail</guilabel>.
</para>
<para>
In the <guilabel>Misc</guilabel> page, of the <guilabel>Configure</guilabel> dialog, choose the <guilabel>Groupware</guilabel> tab. Check the <guilabel>Enable IMAP resource functionality</guilabel> option and select <guilabel>Kolab (XML)</guilabel> as <guilabel>Format used for the groupware folders</guilabel>. The <guilabel>Resource folders are in account</guilabel> combo-box should be set on the <guilabel>Receiving</guilabel> (kolab user) account of your choice (if you happen to have several accounts).You may if you wish hide the groupware folder by checking this option. It is recommended to check both <guilabel>Groupware Compatibility and Legacy Options</guilabel> for compatibility with an eventual <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> Microsoft Outlook client for sending invitations and replies from a <guilabel>Kolab</guilabel> KDE client.  
</para>
</sect3>
        
<sect3 id="receiving-mail-imap">
<title>Options only relevant to <acronym>IMAP</acronym></title>
<para>If you are using <acronym>IMAP</acronym>, you can optionally
specify a path in the <guilabel>Prefix to folders</guilabel> field. This
tells &kmail; where it can find your folders on the server. If you also
have a shell account on the server and the messages are stored in your home
folder it might be useful to store the messages in a subfolder
<filename class="directory">Mail</filename>. Use this as a value in
the <guilabel>Prefix to folders</guilabel> field so that &kmail; does
not mix up mailbox files and other files. If you are not interested in 
this feature, simple leave the field blank.</para>

<para>If you check <guilabel>Automatically compact folders</guilabel> 
&kmail; removes the messages you deleted from the
server as soon as you leave a folder. Otherwise the messages are
only marked as deleted and it is up to you to compact the folders
manually by using the menu item <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Compact All
Folders</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
<para>If you check <guilabel>Show hidden folders</guilabel>,
folders whose name starts with a dot are also displayed.</para>
</sect3>


<sect3 id="receiving-mail-pop3">
<title>Options only relevant to POP3</title>

<para>Select <guilabel>Leave fetched messages on the server</guilabel> if you want to
leave your messages on the server after you downloaded them.</para>

<para>Select <guilabel>Exclude from &quot;Check Mail&quot;</guilabel> if you
do not want to check this account whenever you use <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Check
Mail</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  You can still check for new messages on this account
with <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Check Mail
In</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

<para>Select <guilabel>Enable interval mail checking</guilabel> if you want
&kmail; to check for new messages automatically. The interval can be specified below
under <guilabel>Check interval</guilabel>.</para>

<para><guilabel>inbox</guilabel> is the default folder for incoming
messages. If you want to change that for some reason, you can do so with
<guilabel>Destination folder</guilabel>. But what you probably want is a
<link linkend="filters">filter</link>, which has nothing to do with this
option.</para>

<para>With <guilabel>Precommand</guilabel> you can specify any program that &kmail;
will execute just before fetching mail. Please specify the full path 
(do not use <quote>~</quote>) and note that &kmail; will not continue 
until the program returns.</para>

<para>On the <guilabel>Extras</guilabel> tab you can select <guilabel>Use
pipelining for faster mail download</guilabel> if this is supported by your
server. You should carefully test this to make sure it works safely.</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="receiving-mail-imap-pop3">
<title>Options for both <acronym>IMAP</acronym> and POP3</title>

<!-- TODO: move all this, this isn't important for beginners?! -->
<para>If you select <guilabel>Store POP password in configuration
file</guilabel> or <guilabel>Store IMAP password in configuration
file</guilabel> &kmail; will remember your password so you will not have to
type it every time you start &kmail; and fetch new mail.</para>

<warning><para>Be warned that &kmail; cannot really encrypt your password, so
people who can access your configuration files (&eg; system
administrators) can easily get your password if you select this
option.</para></warning>

<para>&kmail; supports encryption via <guilabel>SSL</guilabel> and
<guilabel>TLS</guilabel> (<guilabel>TLS</guilabel> should be preferred
if it is available).</para>

<para>For POP3 &kmail; supports:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Clear text</guilabel>, </para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>PLAIN</guilabel>, </para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>LOGIN</guilabel>, </para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>CRAM-MD5</guilabel> (recommended 
if <guilabel>DIGEST-MD5</guilabel> is not available),</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>DIGEST-MD5</guilabel> (recommended) and</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>APOP</guilabel> authentication.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para><guilabel>DIGEST-MD5</guilabel>, <guilabel>CRAM-MD5</guilabel> and
<guilabel>APOP</guilabel> are secure on their own, the other
options are only secure when used together with <guilabel>SSL</guilabel>
or <guilabel>TLS</guilabel>.  You should only use <guilabel>Clear
text</guilabel> if your server does not support any of the other
authentication methods. Additionally, for <acronym>IMAP</acronym>
<guilabel>Anonymous</guilabel> is supported, but <guilabel>APOP</guilabel>
is not. Use the <guibutton>Check what the server supports</guibutton> button
on the <guilabel>Extras</guilabel> or <guilabel>Security</guilabel> tab
to automatically select the most secure settings supported by your server.</para>

<para>You are now ready to send and receive mail. For
<acronym>IMAP</acronym>, just open your folders in the
folder tree in &kmail;'s main window. &kmail; then connects to your
server and displays the messages it finds. For POP3 use
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Check
Mail</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="testing-your-setup">
<title>Testing your Setup</title>

<para>First, you should send yourself a message to test your
configuration. To send a message, either hit <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>, select the
<guiicon>New Message</guiicon> icon  or select
the <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>New
Message...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu item.  The
<link linkend="the-composer-window">composer window</link> will appear. Fill in the
<guilabel>To:</guilabel> field with your email address and type
something in the <guilabel>Subject</guilabel> field. Send the message by
selecting <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Send</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>.</para>
      
<para>To check your email, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Check
Mail</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. In the lower right corner of the main
window, a progress bar will indicate how many messages are being
downloaded. If you receive the message you just sent, then
congratulations!  If, however, you receive any error messages while
testing your setup, make sure that your network connection is working
and recheck your settings at
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure
&kmail;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>
