<chapter id="menus">

<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
<surname>Naber</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>daniel.naber@t-online.de</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname>
<surname>Rugge</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>davidrugge@mediaone.net</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Michel</firstname>
<surname>Boyer de la Giroday</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>michel@klaralvdalens-datakonsult.se</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
<date>2004-07-11</date>
<releaseinfo>1.7</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Menu Entries</title>

<para>Each menu item is discussed below. When there is a keyboard shortcut that
performs a menu item function, the default shortcut is listed with the menu item.</para>

<sect1 id="main-mail-reader-window">
<title>The Main Window</title>

<sect2 id="reader-file-menu">
<title><guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Creates a new main window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to open files which contain email messages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Saves the currently displayed message to a text file, including all the headers
and attachments.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display a dialog that lets you prints the currently displayed message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Compact All Folders</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will compact all folders, &ie; it will really move and delete the messages
on disk according to how you have moved and deleted them in &kmail;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Expire All Folders</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Delete old messages from all folders, according to the rules in
each folder's <link linkend="folders-properties-window">Properties dialog</link>
(the default is not to delete old messages at all).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Refresh Local &imap; Cache</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will remove all changes that you have done locally to your IMAP
folders and redownload everything from the server. Use this if the local
cache was corrupted.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Empty All Trash Folders</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Use this to empty all trash folders, &ie; the local trash folder and
all trash folders that you might have on &imap; servers.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Check Mail</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Checks for new messages in all your accounts, except those that
have <guilabel>Exclude from &quot;Check Mail&quot;</guilabel> enabled.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Check Mail In</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Submenu that lets you check for new messages from a particular account.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Send Queued Messages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Sends the messages that are in your outbox.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes the current main window or exits
&kmail; if there is only this one window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="reader-edit-menu">
<title><guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Revokes your last move or delete action. Note that you cannot undo a deletion
in the trash.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies selected text to the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>T</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Edit Message</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Edits the selected message if it is editable. Only messages in the
<guilabel>outbox</guilabel> and <guilabel>drafts</guilabel> folder can be edited.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>D</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Move to Trash</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Moves the selected messages to the trash folder. If the selected
messages are already in the trash folder, they will really be deleted.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Delete</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Delete</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Deletes the selected messages. There is no way to recover the messages
once they are deleted with this command.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find in Message...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Lets you search for a string in the currently displayed message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All Messages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all messages in the current folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select Message Text</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the text of the currently displayed message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="reader-view-menu">
<title><guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Headers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Changes the format of the message header in the <guilabel>Message pane</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Attachments</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Changes the way attachments appear in the <guilabel>Message
pane</guilabel> (independent of the MIME Tree). With <guimenuitem>Icons</guimenuitem>
all attachments appear as icons at the bottom of the message.
<guimenuitem>Smart</guimenuitem> will show attachments as
icons, unless the message suggests that they should be displayed inline.
You can suggest that certain attachments should be shown inline 
in your own messages when you select <guilabel>Suggest automatic display</guilabel>
in the attachment's properties dialog.
<guimenuitem>Inline</guimenuitem> shows the contents of the attachments
at the bottom of the message. Attachments that cannot be displayed, &eg;
compressed files, will still be shown as an icon.
<guimenuitem>Hide</guimenuitem> will not show attachments.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Unread Column</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to specify whether the number of unread messages should
be shown in parentheses next to the folder name (<guilabel>View After Folder
Name</guilabel>) or in a separate column (<guilabel>View in Separate
Column</guilabel>)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Total Column</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display a column in the list of folders which shows the number 
of messages per folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>.</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Expand Thread</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If <menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>Thread Messages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> is activated, this will display the thread of the current message, &ie;
all messages that are replies to the current message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>,</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Collapse Thread</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If <menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>Thread Messages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> is activated, this will hide the thread of the current message, &ie;
it will hide all messages that are replies to the current message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>.</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Expand All Threads</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Expands all threads in the current folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>,</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Collapse All Threads</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Collapses all threads in the current folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>V</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>View Source</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Shows the message and its complete headers in plain text format in a new
window. This can be useful to find out the origin of a mail. You should know
that it is easy to fake the <literal>From:</literal> header of a mail, but
one can still find out which mail servers have been used to send the message by looking
at the <literal>Received:</literal> lines in the header.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Use Fixed Font</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Uses a fixed width (monospaced) font to display the messages
in the current folder. The font to be used can be configured in the
<guilabel>Appearance</guilabel> section of &kmail;'s configuration
dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Set Encoding</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Lets you choose the character encoding to be used in the Message
Pane. The default, <guilabel>Auto</guilabel>, should work in almost all cases.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="reader-go-menu">
<title><guimenu>Go</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>N</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Message</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the next message in the message list. The keyboard shortcut
<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap> also performs this action.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>+</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Unread Message</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the next unread message in the message list. If there is
no unread message below the currently selected message then the behavior
depends on the value of the <xref 
linkend="configure-misc-folders-go-unread"/> option.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>P</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous Message</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the previous message in the message list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>-</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous Unread Message</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the previous unread message in the message list. If there is
no unread message above the currently selected message then the behavior
depends on the value of the <xref 
linkend="configure-misc-folders-go-unread"/> option.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Unread Folder</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Jumps to the the next folder with unread messages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous Unread Folder</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Jumps to the the previous folder with unread messages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>Space</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Unread Text</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Scrolls down if you are not yet at the bottom of a message, otherwise
jumps to the next unread message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="reader-folder-menu">
<title><guimenu>Folder</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Folder...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <link linkend="folders-properties-window">Folder Properties</link>
dialog that lets you create a new folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mark All Messages as Read</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets the status of all new and unread messages in the current folder to read.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Compact</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Compacts the folder file to reduce its disk space usage. Usually
&kmail; compacts all folders automatically, but under certain circumstances
you might want to compact a folder manually.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Expire</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Deletes old messages from the current folder or moves them to another 
folder, according to the rules in the folder's <guilabel>Properties</guilabel> dialog (the default is not to delete or move old messages). Usually &kmail;
does this automatically, but under certain circumstances you might want to
expire a folder manually..</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>*</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Remove Duplicate Messages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Searches the folder for duplicate messages and deletes the
duplicates.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>F5</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Check Mail in This Folder</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Checks whether new mail arrived in the currently selected folder.
This is only available for &imap; folders.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Move All Messages to Trash</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Moves all of the messages in the selected folder into the trash folder.
This is only available if the currently selected folder is not a trash 
folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Empty Trash</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Permanently deletes all messages. This is only available if the
currently selected folder is a trash folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Delete Folder</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes the selected folder and all its contents, including subfolders.</para>
<warning><para>Note that there is no way to access the contents
of a folder after it has been removed.</para></warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Prefer HTML to Plain Text</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled then &html; messages in this folders will be shown using
&html; rendering. For security reasons, we recommend to only
activate this for folders which only contain trusted messages.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Thread Messages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled then the messages in the message list
are shown in a tree-like list, with replies showing up directly under the 
message they reply to.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Thread Messages also by Subject</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled then the messages are not only grouped according to special
information included in the messages but also according to their subject,
&ie; messages with the same subject are considered as being related.
If many messages are threaded below unrelated messages then you might want
to disable this option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Folder</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the <link linkend="folders-properties-window">Properties dialog</link> which lets you
change the settings for the selected folder.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="reader-message-menu">
<title><guimenu>Message</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Message...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <link linkend="the-composer-window">composer window</link> so you can 
write a new message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Message to Mailing-List...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the composer window so you can write a new
mail. If the current folder holds a mailing list and has a posting 
address defined, this address will be the default <guilabel>To:</guilabel>
address.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>R</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reply...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the composer window, inserts the quoted text of the currently
selected message and presets the <guilabel>To:</guilabel> field either with 
the mailing-list address (if you reply to a mailing-list message) or with the
preferred reply address of the sender. If you want to control which address
the <guilabel>To:</guilabel> field is preset with then you should either use
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>Reply to
Author...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or 
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>Reply to
Mailing-List...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
Your identity will automatically be set to the one which this message was 
sent to.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>A</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reply to All...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the composer window, inserts the quoted text of the currently
selected message and presets the <guilabel>To:</guilabel> field either with 
the mailing-list address (if you reply to a mailing-list message) or with the
preferred reply address of the sender. The <guilabel>Copy to (CC):</guilabel> 
field is preset with the addresses of all other recipients of the currently
selected message excluding your own addresses.
Your identity will automatically be set to the one which this message was
sent to.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reply to Author...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the composer window, inserts the quoted text of the currently
selected message and presets the <guilabel>To:</guilabel> field with the
preferred reply address of the sender.
Your identity will automatically be set to the one which this message was
sent to.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>L</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reply to Mailing-List...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the composer window, inserts the quoted text of the currently
selected message and presets the <guilabel>To:</guilabel> field with 
the mailing-list address. If you did not specify a mailing-list address for
the currently selected folder and &kmail; cannot determine the posting address
from the currently selected message then the <guilabel>To:</guilabel> field
will be empty.
Your identity will automatically be set to the one which this message was
sent to.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reply Without Quote...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Works just like <guimenuitem>Reply...</guimenuitem> except that the text 
of the currently selected message is not quoted.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Forwards the message to a new recipient. Using <guimenuitem>Inline</guimenuitem>,
the message's text and some important header fields will be copied to the body of the new message 
with a text marking the forwarded part. Attachments will be forwarded
as attachments of the new message. Using <guimenuitem>As Attachment</guimenuitem>
the message and its attachments will become an attachment of the new message. The original message
headers will be included in the forwarded message, too.
<guimenuitem>Redirect</guimenuitem> works like forward, except that the message stays the same (even
the <guilabel>From:</guilabel> field). The user who redirected the message is added in special
header fields (<literal>Redirect-From</literal>, <literal>Redirect-Date</literal>, <literal>Redirect-To</literal>,
&etc;).</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Send Again...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a composer window with the currently selected message so it can be
sent again. This is only available for messages which you have sent or, more
precisely, for messages which have the <guilabel>sent</guilabel> status.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Copy To</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies the selected messages to a certain folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Move To</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Moves the selected messages to a certain folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Mark Message</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to change the status of the selected message to one of the
following states:</para>
<!-- TODO: I think it is worth adding inline images here, at some point. LW. -->
<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Status</entry>
<entry>Symbol</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Read</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Sheet of paper before an envelope</entry>
<entry>The message has been read.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Closed envelope with a star</entry>
<entry>The message is new to &kmail; and you.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Unread</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Close envelope</entry>
<entry>The message is not new to &kmail; but has not been read yet.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Important</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Flag</entry>
<entry>This status will not automatically be set by &kmail;. You can use it freely to mark 
messages that are in some way important to you.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Replied</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Blue u-turn arrow</entry>
<entry>A reply to this message has been sent.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Forwarded</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Blue arrow</entry>
<entry>The message has been forwarded to someone else.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Queued</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Envelope</entry>
<entry>The message has been queued in the outbox to be sent later.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Sent</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Angled envelope</entry>
<entry>The message has been sent.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Spam</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Round recycle symbol</entry>
<entry>This status will not be set automatically by &kmail;. You can use it
to mark spam messages.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guimenuitem>Ham</guimenuitem></entry>
<entry>Green check mark</entry>
<entry>This status will not be set automatically by &kmail;. You can use it
to mark messages which are not spam.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Mark Thread</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to change the status of all messages in a thread. The possible
states are the same as for <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mark Message</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Watch Thread</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Use this to mark threads which you want to keep an eye on for further
contributions to the discussion.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Ignore Thread</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Use this to mark threads you are not interested in. New contributions
to this thread will automatically be marked as read.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Filters</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Applies your filters to the selected messages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Filter</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to apply an individual filter to the selected messages. Only
filters for which you enabled the <guilabel>Add this filter to the Apply
Filter menu</guilabel> option will be available.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="reader-tools-menu">
<title><guimenu>Tools</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>S</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Messages...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up a search window that lets you search for messages with
certain characteristics, &eg; a certain subject. Start the search by entering
some values and press <guibutton>Search</guibutton>. Click on one of the
resulting messages and it will appear in the <guilabel>Message
pane</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Address Book</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Starts up <ulink url="/kaddressbook/">&kaddressbook;</ulink>,
the &kde; address book.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="reader-tools-certificate-manager">
	  <term>
	    <menuchoice>
	      <guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
	      <guimenuitem>Certificate Manager...</guimenuitem>
	    </menuchoice>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Starts <ulink
	      url="/kleopatra"><application>Kleopatra</application></ulink>,
	      the &kde; certificate manager.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="reader-tools-gnupg-log-viewer">
	  <term>
	    <menuchoice>
	      <guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
	      <guimenuitem>GnuPG Log Viewer</guimenuitem>
	    </menuchoice>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Starts <ulink
	      url="/kwatchgnupg"><application>KWatchGnuPG</application></ulink>,
	      a tool to present the debug output of
	      <application>GnuPG</application> application. If
	      signing, encryption, or verification mysteriously stop
	      working, you might find out why by looking at the log.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="reader-tools-import-messages">
	  <term>
	    <menuchoice>
	      <guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
	      <guimenuitem>Import Messages...</guimenuitem>
	    </menuchoice>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Starts up <application>kmailcvt</application> (which is
	      part of kdepim). This application lets you import
	      messages from several email clients &kmail;.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edit "Out of Office" Replies...</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the <guilabel>Configure "Out of Office" Replies</guilabel> dialog, which allow you to set-up vacation notifications.</para>
<note>
<para><guilabel>Out of Office reply</guilabel> functionality relies on server-side filtering. To be able to use it you need to configure the <link linkend="receiving-mail">Filtering tab</link> (see option relevant to kolab server) of your <guilabel>IMAP</guilabel> account set-up.
</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Create Filter</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the <link linkend="filter-dialog-id">Filter dialog</link> with a new filter added.
This new filter is based on fields of the current mail, depending on which
sub menu item you select.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Filter Log Viewer...</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the viewer window for the filter log; there you find some options to
control the logging of the filtering process.  In the log you will find valuable
information about what filter rules were used, what was the result of the evaluation 
of those rules, and which filter actions were applied to a message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Anti-Spam Wizard...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>It starts a <link linkend="the-anti-spam-wizard">wizard</link> which can help 
you to set up spam filtering.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!--
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Anti-Virus Wizard...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>It starts a <link linkend="the-anti-virus-wizard">wizard</link> which can help 
you to set up scanning messages for virusses.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
-->

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="reader-settings-menu">
<title><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled, the Toolbar is visible (the Toolbar is the one with the icon
to compose a new message &etc;).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Quick Search</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled, the Quick Search bar which allows you to quickly search
for messages matching a search text is visible.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Filters...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <link linkend="filters">Message Filters</link> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure POP Filters...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <link linkend="popfilters">Configure Pop Filters</link> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a window that lets you configure the keyboard shortcuts for many
menu commands.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Notifications...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a window that lets you configure what happens when new mail arrives,
like playing a sound.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a window that lets you choose which icons are visible in the
toolbar.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kmail;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <link linkend="configure">Configure</link> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="reader-help-menu">
<title><guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>These are the &kde; standard items for the <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu:</para>

&help.menu.documentation;

<para>Additionally &kmail; offers these items:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>&kmail; Introduction</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This displays the welcome screen, which lists the most important
differences between your version of &kmail; and the previous one.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Tip of the Day</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This displays a dialog with useful hints for using &kmail;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="composer-window-menus">
<title>The Composer Window</title>

<sect2 id="composer-file-menu">
<title><guimenu>Message</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Composer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up a new composer window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Main Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Creates a new main window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Return</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Send Now</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sends the message immediately. If you use SMTP to send your
messages and the SMTP server is not reachable, the message will be put
into the outbox and you will get an error message. You can then later send
the messages in the outbox using <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send
Later</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Send Later</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Queues the message in the outbox for sending it later using 
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send
Queued Messages</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save in Drafts Folder</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Save the message in the <guilabel>drafts</guilabel> folder so you can 
later edit and send it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Messages</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Insert File...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Inserts a text file into the message text, starting at the cursor
position.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Prints the current text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes this composer window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="composer-edit-menu">
<title><guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Undo your steps in editing the current message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Redo your steps in editing the current message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Cutting text works as with most editors: the selected text is
removed and put into the clipboard. Note that you can also select text and
drag it to a new position.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copying text works as with most editors: the selected text is copied to the clipboard.
Note that you can also select text while holding the &Ctrl; key, and drag it to a new
position to copy it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Pasting works the same as with most editors: the text from the
clipboard is pasted at the current cursor position.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all of the text in your message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a dialog to search for strings in the current message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Goes to the next occurrence of the previously searched string.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Replace...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a dialog that lets you replace strings in your message with other strings.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Clean Spaces</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This replaces multiple line breaks or spaces with single line breaks or spaces.
It works on the current selection or on the complete message if there is no selection.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste as Quotation</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Pastes the text from the clipboard marked as quotation.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Add Quote Characters</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Prepends the selected text with quotation marks.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Remove Quote Characters</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes the left-most quotation marks from the selected text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="composer-view-menu">
<title><guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>This menu lets you toggle the display of the header fields and other
options in this composer window.</para>

<para>Options available are:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>All Fields</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Identity</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Dictionary</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Sent-Mail folder</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Mail Transport</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>From</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Reply To</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>To</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>CC</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>BCC</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Subject</guimenuitem></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Currently visible items have a checkmark shown next to their name in the
menu.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Use Fixed Font</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Uses a fixed width (monospaced) font to display the currently
edited message. The font to be used can be configured in the
<guilabel>Appearance</guilabel> section of &kmail;'s configuration
dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="composer-options-menu">
<title><guimenu>Options</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Urgent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets the priority of the message to Urgent. The receiver's email client has to support
this or it will have no effect. &kmail; itself does not support priorities for
incoming messages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="composer-options-request-mdn">
	  <term>
	    <menuchoice>
	      <guimenu>Options</guimenu>
	      <guimenuitem>Request Disposition Notification</guimenuitem>
	    </menuchoice>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      If you choose this option, you request a confirmation
	      email once your message is downloaded and read by its
	      recipient. This has to be supported and enabled by the
	      receiver's email client in order to work.
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      See <xref linkend="configure-security-reading-mdns"/>
	      for background information and ways to customize the
	      read receipts that &kmail; itself sends.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="composer-options-sign-message">
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Sign Message</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Digitally sign the message using <application>OpenPGP</application>.
You can learn more about this in the <link linkend="pgp">chapter on OpenPGP</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="composer-options-encrypt-message">
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Encrypt Message</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Encrypt the message using <application>OpenPGP</application>.
You can learn more about this in the <link linkend="pgp">chapter on OpenPGP</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry id="composer-options-select-crypto-message-format">
	  <term>
	    <menuchoice>
	      <guimenu>Options</guimenu>
	      <guisubmenu>Select Cryptographic Message Format</guisubmenu>
	    </menuchoice>
	  </term>
	  <listitem>
	    <para>
	      Choose the cryptographic message format to use to
	      digitally sign and/or encrypt the message in. See <link
	      linkend="cryptographic-message-formats">the previous
	      description of each option</link> for more information.
	    </para>
	  </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Formatting (HTML)</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Enables &html; editing.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Set Encoding</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Set the charset encoding of this message. The chosen encoding will appear in the header of
the outgoing mail. You can use <guilabel>Auto</guilabel> for almost all
cases, &kmail; will tell you if you need to select a different encoding manually.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Wordwrap</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles the automatic wordwrap. It may be useful to turn it off if you want
to paste long lines that should not wrap.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Options</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Automatic Spellchecking</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles automatic spellchecking. Note that in &html;-editing mode
automatic spellchecking is not available.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="composer-attach-menu">
<title><guimenu>Attach</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>This menu lets you select attachment options.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Append Signature</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Appends your signature (<quote>footer</quote>) to the end of the message.
<!-- fixme: nothing to do with crypto stuff --></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Attach Public Key...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Attaches the corresponding <application>PGP</application>/<application>GnuPG</application>
key to your message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="composer-attach-attach-my-public-key">
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Attach My Public Key</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Attaches your <application>PGP</application>/<application>GnuPG</application>
public key to your message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Attach File...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Attaches one or more files to the current message.</para>
<!-- fixme: not encrypted unless... -->
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Remove Attachment</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes the attachment that is selected in the attachment part of the composer.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Attachment As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Saves the attachment that is selected in the attachment window to a
file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Attach</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Attachment Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the <link linkend="attachments">properties of the attachment</link> that is selected in the
attachment window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="composer-tools-menu">
<title><guimenu>Tools</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spelling...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Uses <ulink url="/kspell/">&kspell;</ulink> to check the spelling in the body of your
message. Note that
you have to configure &kspell; with <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spellchecker...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> if you use it for the
first time.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Addressbook...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up <ulink url="/kaddressbook/">&kaddressbook;</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="composer-settings-menu">
<title><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Main Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled, the Main Toolbar is visible, &ie; the one with the icon
to send the message &etc;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show HTML Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If enabled, the &html; Toolbar is visible, &ie; the one which with the
tools to change certain properties of the composed text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spellchecker...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to configure <ulink url="/kspell/">&kspell;</ulink>, &kde;'s spellchecker.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a window that lets you configure the keyboard shortcuts for many
menu commands.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens a window that allows you to decide which icons appear in the
toolbar.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kmail;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens &kmail;'s <link linkend="configure">configuration dialog</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="composer-help-menu">
<title><guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The entries in this menu have the same meaning as <link
linkend="reader-help-menu">the entries in the main window's help
menu</link>.</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

</chapter>
