<chapter id="using-kmail">

<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
<surname>Naber</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>daniel.naber@t-online.de</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
<date>2004-09-24</date>
<releaseinfo>1.7.50</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Using &kmail;</title>

<sect1 id="the-mail-reader-window">
<title>The Main Window</title>

<para>The main window is the window that appears
when &kmail; is started. It is by default divided into three panes:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Folder list (on the left)</term>
<listitem>
<para>This pane contains the list of your message folders (other email programs
may call them mailboxes). To select a folder, simply click on
it. The messages contained in the folder will now appear in the Headers
pane. The folder list can be displayed in both a short view, which takes up only
a small portion of the left side of the screen, and a long view, which takes up the 
entire left side of the screen but is able to show more mailboxes. You can toggle
between these two views under <guilabel>Appearance</guilabel>/<guilabel>Layout</guilabel>
in the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&kmail;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> dialog. Also see the <link
linkend="folders">Folders Section</link> for more information about how to use
folders.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Message list (in the upper right by default)</term>
<listitem>
<para>This pane lists header information (message Status Flags, Sender, Subject,
Date, and other optional columns like Size, Attachment Flag, Important Flag, etc.)
for the messages in the currently selected folder. Clicking on a header
will select that message and display it in the Message pane; you can also select
more than one message by holding down the &Ctrl; key when clicking on messages.
You may sort the messages by clicking on the column that you wish to
sort; if you click on the same column more than once, sort order will toggle
between ascending/descending and some alternative sorting criteria will become
available (like sorting by Status when you click on the header of the Subject column).
Clicking the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mousebutton on the list header shows a popup menu,
which allows to show or hide several columns in the list.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Message preview pane (in the lower right by default)</term>
<listitem>
<para>This pane displays the currently selected message. Attachments appear
at the bottom of the message, either as icons or embedded in the message,
depending on <menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Attachments</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. For complex messages
the structure of the message is shown in the message structure viewer below
the preview pane. The placement of the preview pane as well as the placement
of the structure viewer can be changed under <guilabel>Appearance</guilabel>/<guilabel>Layout</guilabel>
in the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&kmail;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> dialog. Moreover, you can disable the 
preview pane and you can choose when the message structure viewer should be
shown.
You can scroll through the message page-by-page
using the <keycap>Page Up</keycap> and <keycap>Page down</keycap> keys, or 
line-by-line using the <keycap>up arrow</keycap> and <keycap>down arrow</keycap>
keys; you can also use <link linkend="keyboard-shortcuts">key shortcuts</link> to skip through 
your messages without having to use the mouse.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="keyboard-shortcuts">
<title>Keyboard Shortcuts</title>

<para>The following keyboard shortcuts are supported in the main window:</para>

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyboard Shortcut</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Space</keycap></entry>
<entry>Scroll down in the current message or go to the next unread message if you are already 
at the bottom.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Right Arrow</keycap> or <keycap>N</keycap></entry>
<entry>Go to the next message in the current folder.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Left Arrow</keycap> key or <keycap>P</keycap></entry>
<entry>Go to the previous message in the current folder.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>+</keycap></entry>
<entry>Go to the next unread message in the current folder.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>-</keycap></entry>
<entry>Go to the previous unread message in the current folder.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Go to the next folder with unread messages.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Go to the previous folder with unread messages.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Go to the next folder in the folder list (if the folder list has focus.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Go to the previous folder in the folder list (if the folder list has focus.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Walk upwards in the list of folders. Use 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo> to actually
enter the folder.</entry>
<!-- TODO: or wait for timeout so the folder is selected? -->
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Walk downwards in the list of folders. Use 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo> to actually
enter the folder.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Enter the folder that has focus, &ie; the folder that you navigated
to using <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo> or
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo> and
<keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Select messages in the header pane, starting with the current message.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

<para>For more keyboard shortcuts have a look at the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> dialog.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-composer-window">
<title>The Composer Window</title>

<para>The composer window is used to write new messages; 
it can be invoked via <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Message...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
menu or from the <guiicon>New Message</guiicon> icon on the main
window.</para>

<sect2 id="composing-a-message">
<title>Composing a Message</title>

<para>To write your message, fill in the appropriate fields in the
composer window. Use the <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu
to select which header fields are displayed. The <guimenuitem>Identity</guimenuitem>
field offers a <guibutton>Sticky</guibutton> option; if it is checked,
the current identity will become the default identity when you open
a new composer next time.</para>

<para>There are a variety of shortcuts to help
you with writing your messages. The <guibutton>...</guibutton> buttons next to
the <guilabel>To:</guilabel>, <guilabel>CC:</guilabel>, and
<guilabel>BCC:</guilabel> fields will call up the address book so that you can
select addresses from there.</para>

<para>When you start typing an address in the
<guilabel>To:</guilabel>/<guilabel>CC:</guilabel>/<guilabel>BCC:</guilabel>
fields, a popup will appear that offers matching addresses that have been used recently 
and matching addresses from your address book; if you do not like the automatic 
popup you can disable it by clicking with the &RMB; on the field and choosing 
a different completion mode.</para>

<para>Whenever you want to add more than one
recipient in one of the fields, use a comma to separate each address
from the next one. 
<!-- fixme: there's now a setting for this: -->
You may need to specify fully qualified addresses
(&ie; <userinput>user@domain.com</userinput>) even for local
users, depending on your system configuration.</para>

<para>When you are finished with your
message, click the <guiicon>Send Now</guiicon> icon (the envelope) to send
the message now, or click the <guiicon>Send Later</guiicon> icon to put
the message in the outbox. If your message is not finished yet, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save in Drafts
Folder</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para></sect2>

<sect2 id="encrypt-sign">
<title>Signing and Encrypting Messages</title>

<para>
 If you want to send an <link
linkend="pgp-encrypt-your-messages">encrypted</link>
or <link linkend="pgp-sign-your-messages">digitally signed</link> message, select the
<guiicon>Sign Message</guiicon> or <guiicon>Encrypt 
Message</guiicon> icons in the toolbar. Moreover you can select the format that should be used to sign and/or encrypt the message. Depending on the
installed encryption programs you can choose between:
</para>

<variablelist id="cryptographic-message-formats">
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Any</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>KMail will use a format which is understood by all recipients of the
message. The preferred format of the recipients can be specified in the
KDE Address Book.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Inline OpenPGP (deprecated)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This format is outdated. If you use this format then only the
message text will be signed and/or encrypted. <emphasis>Attachments will 
neither be signed nor encrypted.</emphasis> HTML messages cannot be signed
with this format. You should only use this format
if necessary, &ie; if you send messages to users of email clients that cannot
handle the more advanced formats.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>PGP/MIME</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This format is the successor of the inline OpenPGP format. If you
use this format then the message text and all attachments will be signed
and/or encrypted (at least by default). This is the recommended format if you
use OpenPGP.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>S/MIME</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This format is an alternative format to PGP/MIME. If you
use this format then the message text and all attachments will be signed
and/or encrypted (at least by default). This format is mostly used by
corporations.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>S/MIME opaque</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This format is a variant of the S/MIME format. It should only be
used if necessary.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="html-mails">
<title>Creating HTML Messages</title>

<para>Note that HTML messages are often regarded as an annoyance; therefore,
you should avoid sending HTML messages if possible. Particularly, you should never
send HTML messages to a mailing list unless HTML messages are explicitly
allowed.</para>

<para>In order to be able to create HTML messages you first have to enable
the markup tools. To do this enable <guimenuitem>Formatting (HTML)</guimenuitem> in the <menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu></menuchoice> menu. 
A toolbar with several tools to
format the message will appear. Via the drop down box you can select between
standard text and six different types of lists (three bulleted lists with 
different symbols and three numbered lists with different numbering).
Moreover, you can select the font family, the font size, the font style (bold,
italic, underlined) and the text color. Last but not least, you can select
the alignment of the text (left aligned, centered, right aligned).</para>

<para>Creating tables and embedding images is currently not possible.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="attachments">
<title>Adding Attachments</title>

<para>You can attach files to your message by using one of the methods
below:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Click the <guiicon>Attach File</guiicon> (paper clip) icon and select the file you wish
to attach;</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Drag a file from the desktop or another folder into the
composer window;</para> 
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Drag a message from &kmail;'s message list into the composer
window -- that message will then be attached;</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Select one of the options in the
<menuchoice><guimenu>Attach</guimenu></menuchoice> menu.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Once a file is attached to your message, it appears in the attachments
pane at the bottom of the composer window. You can use the
&RMB; on each attachment to <guimenuitem>View</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> or <guimenuitem>Remove</guimenuitem>
the attachment.</para>

<para>Use the <guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem> item to
open the <guilabel>Message Part Properties</guilabel> dialog.
The first field contains the attachment's &MIME; type. Just like the <guilabel>Name</guilabel>
field, it should be automatically filled with an appropriate value. Sometimes the
&MIME; type value may be wrong. You can then type in any &MIME; type or
choose from the list of common &MIME; types. You can also select an encoding
method for your file from the list of encoding options (normally, the default
value works fine). Check the <guilabel>Suggest automatic display</guilabel> option 
if you want to suggest to the recipient the automatic (inline) display of this attachment. Whether this works or not depends on the recipient's email client
and on his settings.</para>

<para>You can also attach public keys to the message by using the appropriate options in the
<menuchoice><guimenu>Attach</guimenu></menuchoice> menu. <application>PGP</application>
key attachments are handled like file attachments.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="checking-the-spelling-of-your-message">
<title>Checking the Spelling of your Message</title>

<para>&kmail; will automatically check the spelling of your message (in
HTML mode this currently does not work)
and display unknown words using red color. If there are too many
unknown words &kmail; will disable its checking. To select the language
used for checking, select <menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Dictionary</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. You can disable
automatic spellchecking in the <menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu></menuchoice> menu.</para>

<para>To check the spelling of your message using a dialog, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spelling...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. &kmail; uses 
<ulink url="/kspell/">&kspell;</ulink> to
check spelling, which is the &kde; frontend to the 
<application>ispell</application> or <application>aspell</application> spelling
checker. Note that you may first need to configure the spellchecker using
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spellchecker...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="folders">
<title>Message Folders</title>

<para>Message Folders are used to organize your email messages. By default, all
message folders are stored in the folder <filename
class="directory">Mail</filename>, which is created in your home folder. When
you first start &kmail; the <guilabel>inbox</guilabel>,
<guilabel>outbox</guilabel>, <guilabel>sent-mail</guilabel>,
<guilabel>trash</guilabel> and <guilabel>drafts</guilabel> folders are created.
These folders each have special functions:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>inbox:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Where &kmail; by default puts your new messages when you ask it to check your
mail. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>outbox:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Where messages are put while they are waiting to be delivered. Note that
you should not drag and drop messages here to send them, use the <guiicon>Send</guiicon>
icon in the composer window instead.<!-- fixme 3.2: has this been 'fixed'? --></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>sent-mail:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>By default copies of all messages that you have sent are put into this folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>trash:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>By default all messages that you have moved to trash are moved into this folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>drafts:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Contains messages you started to edit but then saved to this
folder instead of sending them.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>You may find that the standard folders are fine for your
needs; eventually, though, you will probably need folders to help you organize
your messages. To create a new folder, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>New Folder...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>: 
the <link linkend="folders-properties-window">folder properties</link> dialog
will then prompt you for the necessary information. If you ever need to change
the settings for a folder, select the folder you wish to modify in the Folders pane and select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>.</para>

<para>To move messages from one folder into another, select the message(s) you
want to move and press the <keycap>M</keycap> key or select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>Move
To</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. A list of folders will appear; select the folder
from the list that you want to move the messages to.  Messages can also be moved
by dragging them from the Message list to a folder in the Folder list.</para>

<para>If you want to clear all of the messages out of a folder choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>Move All Messages to
Trash</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. You can use 
<menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guimenuitem>Delete Folder</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
to remove a folder and all its messages and subfolders.</para>

<sect2 id="folders-properties-window">
<title>Folder Properties</title>

<para>The folder's <guilabel>Properties</guilabel> dialog lets you rename and move
a folder and specify all of its properties. Note that most properties
are only available for your own folders and not for default folder like
<guilabel>inbox</guilabel> &etc;. Default folders also cannot be moved
or renamed.</para>

<sect3 id="folders-properties-general">
<title>General</title>

<para>Rename a folder by changing the entry in the <guilabel>Name:</guilabel> field.</para>

<para>You can make a folder a subfolder of another folder by choosing a new parent
folder using the <guilabel>Belongs to</guilabel> selection. </para>

<para>The <guilabel>Folder Icons</guilabel> section lets you choose
icons that are different from the default ones in the folder list.</para>

<para>See the <link linkend="folders-format">Folder Format</link> section
for information about the <guilabel>Mailbox format.</guilabel></para>

<para>With the <guilabel>Identity</guilabel> section you can set the default
identity that should be used for new messages if this folder is selected.
Replies to messages that were sent directly
to you will still default to the message's <quote>To</quote> address if an
according identity is found.</para>

<para>With <guilabel>Show Sender/Receiver</guilabel> you can set the 
visible columns in the header pane. This is useful if you use a
folder to save your own sent messages.</para>

<para>Check <guilabel>Ignore new mail in this folder</guilabel> if you do not
want to be informed about new mail that arrives in this folder. This is for
example useful for the folder where you move all detected spam messages to.</para>

<para>Check <guilabel>Keep replies in this folder</guilabel> if you want
replies to messages in this folder to be filed also into this folder rather 
than into a special sent-mail folder.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="folders-properties-expiry">
<title>Old Message Expiry</title>

<para>Here you can select what should happen with old messages in this
folder. If you enable <guilabel>Expire old messages in this folder</guilabel>
then KMail will regularly, depending on your choice, either delete old 
messages or move old messages to another folder. You can also start
expiration of old messages manually via <menuchoice><guimenu>Folder</guimenu><guisubmenu>Expire</guisubmenu></menuchoice> and via
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guisubmenu>Expire
All Folders</guisubmenu></menuchoice></para>

<warning><para>Messages that are deleted during expiration of old messages 
cannot be restored, so be careful with this setting.</para></warning>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="folders-properties-mailinglist">
<title>Mailing List</title>

<para>If you are going to use the folder for a mailing list then you should
check <guilabel>Folder holds a mailing list</guilabel> to associate this folder
with the mailing list. Next you should
click on <guilabel>Detect Automatically</guilabel>. KMail will then try
to guess some information about the mailing list from the currently selected
message. If KMail could not determine some addresses then you can add
the missing information manually. To do this first select the 
<guilabel>Address type</guilabel> for which you want to add an address.
You can choose between:</para>

	<variablelist>
	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-mailinglist-post">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>Post to List</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		This address is used for sending messages to the
		mailing list. This is usually an email address.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>
	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-mailinglist-subscribe">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>Subscribe to List</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		This address is used for subscribing to the mailing
		list. This can be an email address or the address of a
		webpage.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>
	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-mailinglist-unsubscribe">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>Unsubscribe from List</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		This address is used for unsubscribing from the
		mailing list. This can be an email address or the
		address of a webpage.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>
	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-mailinglist-archive">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>List Archives</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		This is the address of the archive of the mailing
		list. This is usually the address of a webpage.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>
	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-mailinglist-help">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>List Help</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		This address is used for requesting help for this
		mailing list. This is usually an email address.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>
	</variablelist>

<para>After selecting the appropriate <guilabel>Address type</guilabel> you
enter the email address or the address of the webpage and then click on
<guilabel>Add</guilabel>. With <guilabel>Remove</guilabel> you can remove
addresses.</para>

<para>If all addresses have been added then you can execute an action, &eg;
go to the list archives, by selecting the appropriate 
<guilabel>Address type</guilabel> and then clicking on
<guilabel>Invoke Handler</guilabel>. If there is an email address and an
address of a webpage for the desired action then you will have to select
the <guilabel>Preferred handler</guilabel> prior to clicking on 
<guilabel>Invoke Handler</guilabel>. Select <guilabel>KMail</guilabel> if you
want to send a message to the email address and select 
<guilabel>Browser</guilabel> if you want to go to the webpage.</para>

<para>Alternatively to invoking the handler for 
<guilabel>Post to List</guilabel> you can send a new message to the
mailing list via <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>New
Message to Mailing-List...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or by clicking with
the <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> mousebutton on the folder in the folder
list.</para>

</sect3>

      <sect3 id="folders-properties-acl">
	<title>Access Control tab (&imap; only)</title>

	<para>
	  Here you can manage the access control lists (&acl;s) of
	  &imap; folders.
	</para>

	<para>
	  The currently active &acl; is shown in the list. It consists
	  of pairs of <guilabel>User Id</guilabel>s and the
	  <guilabel>Permissions</guilabel> granted to users identified
	  by that <guilabel>User Id</guilabel>.
	  <footnote>
	    <para>
	      Note that a single <guilabel>User Id</guilabel> might
	      refer to more than one user. Depending on the &imap;
	      server and its configuration, there may be User Ids
	      that correspond to groups of users, anonymous users, or
	      any user. Consult the manual of your specific &imap;
	      server implementation for more information.
	    </para>
	  </footnote>
	  &acl;s are settable per-folder.
	</para>

	<note>
	  <para>
	    As with everything else when using <emphasis>disconnected
	    &imap;</emphasis>, you need to sync with the server for
	    the changes to be transferred to the server.
	  </para>
	</note>

	<para>
	  &imap; &acl;s define a lot of fine-grained permissions that
	  you can grant or deny other users. For the sake of clarity,
	  &kmail; will present them as the following five categories
	  that you can choose from (see <xref
	  linkend="table-acl-summary"/> for the details if you already
	  know &imap; &acl;s).
	</para>

	<variablelist>

	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-acl-none">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>None</guilabel>
	      </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		Grants the users identified by <guilabel>User
		Id</guilabel> no rights at all. This is also the
		default for users not explicitly (or implicitly, as a
		group) listed in the &acl;. These users will not see
		this folder in the list of &imap; folders presented to
		them by their mail clients.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>

	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-acl-read">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>Read</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		Grants the users identified by <guilabel>User
		Id</guilabel> reading rights for this folder. This
		also includes the ability for their mail clients to
		mark mails as read and store this information on the
		server.<!-- --><footnote>
		  <para>
		    Every user has its own list of read mail, so none
		    of your unread mails will suddenly be marked as
		    read just because someone else has already read them.
		  </para>
		</footnote>
	      </para>
	      <para>
		These users will see this folder in the list of &imap;
		folders presented to them by their mail clients.
	      </para>
	      <para>
		Use this to create a shared folder that others can
		read, but not modify.
	      </para>
	      <informalexample>
		<para>
		  If you were the editor of a company's news letter,
		  you could create a folder for the purpose of
		  distributing the news letter, grant everyone reading
		  rights, and save the letter to this folder instead
		  of sending it out by email to a catch-all address.
		</para>
	      </informalexample>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>

	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-acl-append">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>Append</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		(also known as <guilabel>Post</guilabel>)
	      </para>
	      <para>
		Grants the users identified by <guilabel>User
		Id</guilabel> reading (see above) and posting rights
		for this folder.
	      </para>
	      <para>
		Use this to create a shared folder that others can
		read and post messages to, but can not otherwise
		modify.
	      </para>
	      <informalexample>
		<para>
		  If you wanted to create a company-wide discussion
		  forum, instead of using a web-based form or a
		  separate company-private usenet server, you could
		  create a bunch of folders (one per topic), and grant
		  everyone reading and posting rights. Instead of
		  posting to an &nntp; server or writing their
		  messages into a web form, people would just write
		  emails and store them in the folder suiting the
		  topic of the message.
		</para>
	      </informalexample>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>

	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-acl-write">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>Write</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		Grants the users identified by <guilabel>User
		Id</guilabel> reading, posting (see above), and
		writing rights for this folder.
	      </para>
	      <para>
		The right to write to a folder includes deleting of
		messages, creating subfolders, and storing other
		attributes than read/unread on the server (&eg;
		answered).
	      </para>
	      <para>
		Use this to create a shared folder that everyone has
		(almost, see <xref linkend="folders-properties-acl-all"/>)
		the same rights for.
	      </para>
	      <informalexample>
		<para>
		  In the <xref
		  linkend="folders-properties-acl-append"/> example,
		  you could assign write rights to a group of people
		  acting as moderators, which would then be able to
		  remove off-topic posts, and create sub-topic-folders
		  for high-traffic folders.
		</para>
	      </informalexample>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>

	  <varlistentry id="folders-properties-acl-all">
	    <term>
	      <guilabel>All</guilabel>
	    </term>
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		Grants the users identified by <guilabel>User
		Id</guilabel> reading, posting, writing (see above),
		as well as administration rights, &ie; the right to
		modify the &acl; of this folder.
	      </para>
	      <para>
		This is the default set of rights for the owner of a
		folder.
	      </para>
	    </listitem>
	  </varlistentry>

	</variablelist>

	<para>
	  <xref linkend="table-acl-summary"/> summarizes the &imap;
	  &acl; rights associated with each permission level.
	</para>

	<table id="table-acl-summary">
	  <title>
	    &acl; Rights Summary
	  </title>
	  <tgroup cols="6">
	    <thead>
	      <row>
		<entry>&acl; right</entry>
		<entry><xref linkend="folders-properties-acl-none"/></entry>
		<entry><xref linkend="folders-properties-acl-read"/></entry>
		<entry><xref linkend="folders-properties-acl-append"/></entry>
		<entry><xref linkend="folders-properties-acl-write"/></entry>
		<entry><xref linkend="folders-properties-acl-all"/></entry>
	      </row>
	    </thead>
	    <!--tfoot/-->
	    <tbody>
	      <row>
		<entry>Lookup</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Read</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Store Seen</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Insert</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Post</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Write Flags</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Create</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Delete</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	      <row>
		<entry>Administer</entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry></entry>
		<entry>x</entry>
	      </row>
	    </tbody>
	  </tgroup>
	</table>

      </sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="folders-format">
<title>Folder Format</title>

<para>A message folder can be either in <guilabel>mbox</guilabel> or in <guilabel>maildir</guilabel>
format. <guilabel>mbox</guilabel> saves all messages of a folder to one file,
whereas <guilabel>maildir</guilabel> saves each message to its own file.
<guilabel>maildir</guilabel>, which is the default format, can be considered more
robust, but it can be slower on some file systems. If you are unsure,
choose <guilabel>maildir</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Note that there is currently no feature in &kmail; that allows you to convert
between both formats automatically, but you can just move all messages from an old
<guilabel>mbox</guilabel> folder to a new <guilabel>maildir</guilabel> folder or
vice-versa.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="filters">
<title>Message Filters</title>
<anchor id="filters-id"/>

<para>After using &kmail; for a while, you may find that you have trouble
sorting out the new messages in your inbox when they arrive. Filters allow you
to automatically perform certain actions on incoming messages and to manually
perform actions on selected messages in a folder.</para>

<para>Please note that the filters described in this section are
applied <emphasis>after</emphasis> the messages have been downloaded
from your account -- if you want to filter messages on the server, see
<link linkend="popfilters">Download Filters</link>.</para>

<para>Filters consist of: filter criteria, whose rules are used as
criteria to determine whether this filter should be applied to a given
message; and a list of filter actions, which describe what is to be
done with, or to, the message if the search pattern matches. Read more
about filter criteria and filter actions in the following
subsections.</para>

<note><para>Filters are considered one after the other,
starting with the first filter in the list. The first one whose
pattern matches the given message gets executed; you can request that
the remaining filters also be applied, but the default is to stop
processing at the first matching filter. </para></note>

<para>Usually, filters are used on incoming messages, but they can
also be applied to sent messages or to an arbitrary message or group
of messages. To selectively filter messages, select the messages you
want to filter in the message list and either type <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap> </keycombo> or select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Apply
Filters</guimenuitem></menuchoice>: this will apply all filters that
have been marked for manual filtering in the <link
linkend="filter-dialog">filter dialog</link> to those messages.</para>

<sect2 id="filter-quick">
<title>Fast Filter Creation</title>

<para>There are two methods for creating a filter; the quick method is
to use <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Create
Filter...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>: this will call the filter dialog
and present you with a new filter which has the first rule of the
search pattern and the first action (as <guilabel>Move into Folder</guilabel>) 
preset. In most cases, all you have to do is select the folder where the message
should be moved to; but you can, of course, edit the filter as you
like.</para>

<para>When creating a filter on mailing list messages this method 
will try really hard to find a criterion that
uniquely identifies messages from that list; If it succeeds, the guessed
name of the list is presented in the
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Create
Filter</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Filter on
Mailing-List...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu entry.</para>

<para>The second method is to manually construct a filter from scratch
by calling the filter dialog through
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure 
Filters...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. The filter dialog is described in
detail in the following subsection.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-dialog">
<title>The Filter Dialog</title>
<anchor id="filter-dialog-id"/>

<para>This dialog allows you to manage and edit your list of
filters.</para>

<para>You can reach it either via
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Create
Filter...</guisubmenu></menuchoice> or
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure 
Filters...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

<para>The dialog is divided into four main sections:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Available Filters</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This group contains the list of filters and some action
buttons to modify the filters, namely: to create new filters; to move them up or 
down the list; to delete them; or to rename them. If you select
a filter from the list, its properties are shown in the right-hand half
of the dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Filter Criteria</guilabel></term> <listitem><para>In
this group you can edit the pattern that messages must match for the
filter to be applied to them. You can select here whether all of the
defined rules must match or whether it suffices that any one of them
matches. See <link linkend="filter-criteria">Search Patterns</link>
below for a detailed description of each search rule type.</para>

<para> You can click on <guibutton>More</guibutton> to get an
additional (initially empty) rule if you want to define more-complex
patterns and on <guibutton>Fewer</guibutton> to remove the last
rule. <guibutton>Clear</guibutton> clears the pattern, &ie; it removes
all but two rules from screen and resets those two.</para>
<para>Invalid or empty rules are not evaluated.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Filter Actions</guilabel></term> <listitem><para>In
this group you can edit the list of actions that are applied to all
messages that match the defined filter criteria. See <link
linkend="filter-action">Filter Actions</link> below for a detailed
description of each action type.</para>

<para> You can click on <guibutton>More</guibutton> to get a new,
empty action (if you want to define more than one action) and on
<guibutton>Fewer</guibutton> to remove the last
action. <guibutton>Clear</guibutton> clears the list, &ie; it
removes all but one action and resets that one.</para>
<para>Invalid or empty actions are not executed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Advanced Options</guilabel></term>

<listitem>

<para>In this group you can define a few advanced options for filters
that allow you to refine your filtering.</para>

<para>Using the first row of check boxes, you can toggle when the
filter is applied: the <guilabel>to incoming messages</guilabel>
option means that the filter is applied to messages when you receive
them (&ie; on <guiicon>Check Mail</guiicon>); the <guilabel>to sent
messages</guilabel> options means that the filter is applied to
messages when you send them and the <guilabel>on manual
filtering</guilabel> option controls whether to apply this filter when
filtering is specifically selected (&ie; via
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Apply
Filters</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.)</para>

<para>The <guilabel>If this filter matches, stop processing here</guilabel>
check box in the second row controls whether or not the filters after
the current filter will be applied, if the current filter matches.</para>

<para>If the <guilabel>Add this filter to the Apply Filter menu</guilabel>
check box in the third row is selected, this filter will be inserted
in the <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Apply
Filter</guimenuitem></menuchoice> submenu. You can then apply this
filter to a message. Another way of applying filters is to use
<menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Apply
Filters</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu option, which applies <emphasis>all</emphasis>
the filters - one after another until they are all used or one of the
filters that matches has the <guilabel>If the filters matches, stop
processing here</guilabel>.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<note><para>Filters are automatically named unless you explicitly
rename them using the <guibutton>Rename...</guibutton> button.
The dialog assumes that it should continue auto-naming the filter
as long as the filter name starts with <quote>&lt;</quote>.
</para></note>

<note>
<para>If you apply filter changes, via
<guibutton>OK</guibutton> or <guibutton>Apply</guibutton>, only valid
filters are actually copied to the internal filter manager.</para>

<para>Similarly, empty rules and actions are removed from the pattern
and action list respectively, before the filter is saved.</para>
</note>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-criteria">
<title>Search Patterns</title>

<para>The most common use of filters is to filter on the sender of
messages; this can be done by choosing <guilabel>From</guilabel>. A
good bet for a mailing list would be
<guilabel>&lt;recipients&gt;</guilabel>, but there are other criteria
a filter can search for (note that all patterns are interpreted 
case-insensitively):</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;message&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Searches the whole message (&ie; headers, body and attachments,
if any);</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;body&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Searches the body of the message (&ie; the whole message except the headers);</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;any header&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Searches the headers of the message;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;recipients&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Searches the <quote>To</quote> and <quote>CC</quote> header fields of the message;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;size in bytes&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets upper or lower bounds on the message size;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;age in days&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets upper or lower bounds on the message age;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>&lt;status&gt;</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets restrictions on the status of the message;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Any other name</term>
<listitem>
<para>Searches the header field that is given by that name.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>The list of possible rules depends on what you selected in the first
drop down box. The available rules are:</para>

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="3">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Rule</entry>
<entry>Available for</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>contains</guilabel>/<guilabel>does not contain</guilabel></entry>
<entry>all textual search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the searched item contains (or does not contain) the given
text.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>equals</guilabel>/<guilabel>does not equal</guilabel></entry>
<entry>most textual search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the searched item is equal to (or not equal to) the given
text.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>matches regular expr.</guilabel>/<guilabel>does not match reg. expr.</guilabel></entry>
<entry>all textual search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if a part of the searched item matches the given regular 
expression (or does not match it). If the regular expression editor is 
installed then you can edit the regular expression by clicking on the <guilabel>Edit...</guilabel> button.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>has an attachment</guilabel>/<guilabel>has no attachment</guilabel></entry>
<entry><guilabel>&lt;message&gt;</guilabel></entry>
<entry>Matches if the message has an attachment (or does not have an attachment).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is in address book</guilabel>/<guilabel>is not in address book</guilabel></entry>
<entry>most textual search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the searched item contains an address that is in your address
book (or if the searched items contains only unknown addresses). Of course,
this rule makes only sense for address fields like From or
<guilabel>&lt;recipients&gt;</guilabel></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is in category</guilabel>/<guilabel>is not in category</guilabel></entry>
<entry>most textual search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the searched item contains an address that is in the
specified category in your address book (or if the searched item contains
no address that is in the specified category). Again, this rule makes only
sense for address fields.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is equal to</guilabel>/<guilabel>is not equal to</guilabel></entry>
<entry>numerical search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the value of the search item is equal to (or not equal to) 
the specified value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is less than</guilabel></entry>
<entry>numerical search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the value of the search item is less than
the specified value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is greater than</guilabel></entry>
<entry>numerical search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the value of the search item is greater than
the specified value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is less than or equal to</guilabel></entry>
<entry>numerical search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the value of the search item is less than or equal to
the specified value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is greater than or equal to</guilabel></entry>
<entry>numerical search items</entry>
<entry>Matches if the value of the search item is greater than or equal to
the specified value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><guilabel>is</guilabel>/<guilabel>is not</guilabel></entry>
<entry><guilabel>&lt;status&gt;</guilabel></entry>
<entry>Matches if the message has (or does not have) the specified status.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-action">
<title>Filter Action</title>

<para>The most common use of filters is to sort incoming messages to
certain folders; this can be done by choosing <guilabel>Move into
Folder</guilabel>. Here is a list of all possible actions:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Move into Folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will file the message into another folder, removing it from
its current folder if necessary; you cannot, currently 
use &imap; folders as a target.</para>
<!-- fixme: still correct? -->
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Copy to Folder</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will copy the message to another folder.</para>
<note><para>You currently cannot use &imap;
folders as a target.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Set Identity To</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will set the identity that will be used if you reply to this
message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mark As</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This allows you to mark the message as read or important (flagged), but
also as forwarded, replied, &etc;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Send Fake MDN</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will send a faked message disposition notification (&ie; a read
receipt) to the sender of the message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Set Transport To</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will set the method of transport (&eg; <acronym>SMTP</acronym>) 
that will be used if you reply to the message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry> 
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Set Reply-To To</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will modify the <guilabel>Reply-To</guilabel> field of this
message. This can be useful for mailing lists that automatically set a Reply-To
which you do not like.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Forward To</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will forward the message inline (&ie; as if you selected <menuchoice><guimenu>Message</guimenu><guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem><guimenuitem>Inline...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>) to another email address.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Redirect To</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will redirect the message as-is to another email address.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Confirm Delivery</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Will try to return a message to the sender that
indicates successful delivery of their message, if the sender requested that.</para> <para>This
action allows you to select who will get delivery receipts from
you. <!-- FIXME: removed-->Though you can globally enable the sending of delivery
confirmations in the <guilabel>Configure &kmail;...</guilabel> dialog
(<link linkend="configure-security"><guilabel>Security</guilabel>
page</link>) we recommended not to send them to everyone, since this
makes tracking of spam messages, for example, very easy for the sender.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Execute Command</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will execute a program, but will not modify the
message. Specify the full path to the program you want to
execute; &kmail; will then block until the program returns.
If you do not want &kmail; to block then append '&amp;' to the command.
You can feed
the program with the parts of the mail: <symbol>&percnt;0</symbol>,
<symbol>&percnt;1</symbol>, &etc; stand for files representing
the message parts; for common messages <symbol>&percnt;0</symbol> is the
text, <symbol>&percnt;1</symbol> the first attachment and so
on. Additionally, the whole message is fed into the program's
<acronym>stdin</acronym>; and every occurrence of
<symbol>&percnt;{foo}</symbol> is replaced by the content of the foo
header.</para>

<!-- fixme: still correct? -->
<warning><para>This currently only works if the message has
<emphasis>at least one</emphasis> attachment. No, not even
<symbol>&percnt;0</symbol> will work in the general
case!</para></warning>

<tip><para> You can enter arbitrarily-complex shell commands here,
since &kmail; uses a sub shell to execute the command line; therefore,
even this command will work (within its limits):
<userinput><command>uudecode</command> <option>-o</option>
<parameter>$(mktemp kmail-uudecoded.XXXXXX)</parameter> &amp;&amp;
<command>echo</command> <parameter>$'\a'</parameter></userinput></para></tip>
<!-- fixme: is this uudecode tip useless now?? -->
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Pipe Through</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will feed the message to a program: if the program returns
output, the entire message (including the headers) will be replaced
with this output; if the program does not return output or exits
with a return code other than 0 (indicating an error occurred), the message
will not change.  Specify the full path to the program. The same
substitutions (<symbol>&percnt;n</symbol>,
<symbol>&percnt;{foo}</symbol> as with <guilabel>execute
command</guilabel> are performed on the command line.</para>
<warning><para>Be cautious with this action, as it will easily mess up
your messages if the filter program returns garbage or extra
lines.</para></warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Remove Header</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will remove all header fields with the
given name from the message. This is useful mainly for removing bogus
<quote>Reply-To:</quote> headers.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Add Header</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If no such field is already present this will add a new header field
with the given name and value to the message; if there already is a
header field with that name, it is overwritten with the 
given value; if there are already multiple headers with the given
name (&eg; <quote>Received:</quote> headers), an arbitrary one of them is
overwritten and the others are left unchanged -- this is a known
limitation. You may want to combine this filter with the
<guilabel>remove header</guilabel> filter above to make sure that
there are no other headers with that name in the message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Rewrite Header</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will scan the given header field, modify its contents and write
it back. The search string is always interpreted as a case-sensitive
regular expression. The replacement string is inserted literally
except for occurrences of <userinput>\n</userinput>,
<userinput>$n</userinput> and <userinput>${nn}</userinput>, where
<userinput>n</userinput> is a positive (single-digit, except for the
third form) number or <userinput>0</userinput>. These constructs are
interpreted as back references to substrings captured with parentheses
in the search string.</para><para>Analogous restrictions as in the
<guilabel>add header</guilabel> action apply here, too.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Play Sound</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will play the specified sound.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-examples">
<title>Filter Examples</title>

<para>If I am subscribed to the (general) &kde; List, I could create a
folder for the list (I will call it
<replaceable>KDE-General</replaceable>) and use a filter to
automatically transfer new messages from my inbox to my
<replaceable>KDE-General</replaceable> folder if they are from the
&kde; List. Here is how to create this filter:</para>

<procedure>
<title>Filtering a mailing list</title>
<step>
<para>Try if <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Create
filter</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Filter on
Mailing-List...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> can identify the mailing
list (the name of the list should then appear in the menu item); in
this case, this works and I am presented a filter that has
<quote>List-Id<guilabel>contains</guilabel>
&lt;kde.mail.kde.org&gt;</quote> preset. You select the
desired destination folder from the folder pull-down menu in the
<guilabel>Filter Action</guilabel> group and that is it.</para>

<para>If that does not work, think of a unique way of identifying the
messages you want to filter. The (almost) unique property of my &kde;
List messages is that they always contain
<quote>kde@mail.kde.org</quote> in the
<guilabel>To:</guilabel> or <guilabel>CC:</guilabel> field. It is only
almost unique, because this fails for cross-posted messages.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Select <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure 
Filters...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Press the <guibutton>New</guibutton> button to create an empty
filter. It will appear as <guilabel>&lt;unknown&gt;</guilabel>.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>In the <guilabel> Filter Criteria</guilabel> area, select
<guilabel>&lt;recipients&gt;</guilabel> from the first drop-down box,
<guilabel>contains</guilabel> from the second drop-down box, and type
<userinput>kde@mail.kde.org</userinput> in the text
field.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Skip down to the <guilabel>Filter Actions</guilabel> section. Select <guilabel>file into
folder</guilabel> from the first drop-down box. A new drop-down box
containing a list of folders will appear. Select the folder that you
want the filtered messages to be transferred to. For this example, you would select
<guilabel>KDE-General</guilabel> from the drop-down box.</para>
</step>
</procedure>

<para>You may find that you need to use more powerful criteria to
properly filter your messages; for example, you may only want to
filter the &kde; List messages that are written by your friend <replaceable>Fred
Johnson &lt;fj@anywhere.com&gt;</replaceable>. This is where the rest of the
matching criteria section comes into play:</para>

<procedure>
<title>Extending the filter</title>
<step>
<para>Open up the <guilabel>Configure Filters...</guilabel> window and select
the filter you just created.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Since you want to filter all messages that have
<replaceable>kde@mail.kde.org</replaceable> in the
<guilabel>To:</guilabel> or <guilabel>CC:</guilabel> field
<emphasis>and</emphasis> that are from Fred, check the
<guibutton>Match all of the following</guibutton> radio
button.</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>Now, go to the second search rule and select the following from
the pull-down menus: <guilabel>From</guilabel>,
<guilabel>contains</guilabel>. Now, type
<userinput>fj@anywhere.com</userinput> in the text field.</para>
</step>
</procedure>

<para>You now have a filter that transfers all &kde; List messages
that are from <userinput>fj@anywhere.com</userinput>.</para>
<!-- fixme: trigger with ctrl-j or whenever new mail arrives (unless
<guilabel>Advanced Options</guilabel> are changed. -->
</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-optimization">
<title>Filter Optimization</title>

<para>It is important to know that, for example, the order of the
filters has an  impact on the speed of the filter process. Here are
some ideas which can help you to improve the filtering:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Stop filter processing as early as possible:</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you know that a filter finally processes a certain class of 
messages, please make sure to check the option <guilabel>If this filter 
matches, stop processing here</guilabel> for the filter. 
This will avoid the evaluation of the filter rules of all subsequent
filters. (See the advanced options in the <link linkend="filter-dialog-id">
Filter Dialog</link>).</para>
<para>An example is filtering messages from mailing lists via List-Id
header into separate folders. Having found out that a message came from 
list A means that you can avoid checking the next filter for messages
from list B.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Consider the costs of the evaluation of filter rules:</term>
<listitem>
<para>The time required to evaluate a filter rule depends on the way
the rule is constructed. In particular, scanning for a
substring using the <guilabel>contains</guilabel> operation is faster
than a pattern matching using the <guilabel>matches regular
expr.</guilabel> operation.
</para>
<para>Another dependency is on the amount of data which is used for the
evaluation of a filter rule. If the rule is based on a message header,
its evaluation should normally be much faster than the evaluation of 
a rule based on the complete message.
</para>
<para>You should try to keep the filter rules as simple as possible.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>Check the order of your filters:</term>
<listitem>
<para>All the different filter actions have a different complexity. 
The most expensive filter actions are <guilabel>pipe through</guilabel> 
and <guilabel>execute command</guilabel>, because both need external 
programs to be run. Placing filters containing these filter actions
behind other filters that can reduce the number of times these complex
actions are required is useful, if the filter logic does allow
this.</para> 
<para>An example is filtering messages from a mailing list and detecting 
spam messages. For the spam detection you will usually use an external 
tool via a <guilabel>pipe through</guilabel> action. Filtering the messages 
for the mailing list is done via the List-Id header. If you do not want to 
check the messages from the mailing list for spam too, it is better to
use the filter for the mailing list messages before the filter for the 
spam detection. This way you avoid the expensive and slow spam check for all
messages which were identified as mailing list messages.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-logging">
<title>Filter Log</title>
<para>If you want to verify that your filters work as intended, you can
open a viewer for the filter log via <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Filter Log Viewer...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. 
</para>
<para>In the viewer, there you can configure  the logging of the filter 
processing. You can control the detail level of the log, clear the log 
or save the log into a file. The log can provide valuable information if 
you need to debug your filtering process.
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<!-- dnaber update 2004-02-22 -->
<sect1 id="popfilters">
<title>Download Filters</title>

<para>Download Filters can be used to filter mail from a POP server,
<emphasis>before</emphasis> they are completely downloaded; you can use them
to prevent &kmail; from downloading huge messages and save time this
way.</para>

<para>In the configuration dialog of the POP account you can enable 
download filtering by checking the <guilabel>Filter messages if
they are greater than</guilabel> box; once you have done that, you can specify a size 
which is used as a threshold: messages exceeding this size will be
checked against the filter rules you defined -- if no filter rule
matches, they will be shown in a confirmation dialog and you can
decide what to do with them. The default size for filtering is 50,000
Bytes; this is a good value as the overhead is kept to a minimum -- 
every message that is looked at by the filter causes additional
traffic because the header of the message is downloaded twice. The
default action is <guilabel>Download mail</guilabel> to prevent the
loss of messages.</para>

<warning><para>Be careful with the <guilabel>Delete mail from
server</guilabel> option since once a mail is deleted on the server
there is no way to get it back.</para></warning>

<para>With a really good set of filter rules, it is possible that all
messages that exceed the threshold size are automatically tagged
(&ie; downloaded, kept on the server or deleted) and you would never
be bugged by the confirmation dialog. Be careful though, since once a
message is matched by a filter rule, you have no guarantee that you
can change the action before it is executed: the confirmation dialog will
be displayed <emphasis>only</emphasis> if there is a message left that
was not matched by a filter rule.</para>

<sect2 id="popfilters-dialog">
<title>The <guilabel>Configure Pop Filter</guilabel> Dialog</title>

<para>Adding filter rules works similar as for <link
linkend="filters">message  filters</link>. On the left hand side you
can manage the existing filters. Use the <guiicon>New</guiicon>
button to add a filter. On the right hand side you can configure
under which conditions the current filter should match. Using <guilabel>Filter
Action</guilabel> you specify what will happen to a message that is 
matched by this rule. The available options are:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Download mail</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will download the messages matched by the filter, just as any other message
that does not exceed the threshold size.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Download mail later</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will tag the messages for later download. This means the messages matched
will stay on the POP server until you choose to download them by
changing the action manually.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Delete mail from server</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will delete the message from the server and does not download it. Once you 
deleted a message from the server, there is <emphasis>no</emphasis> way you can undo this.
Be careful, as rules could match messages you actually want, too.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>The option <guilabel>Always show matched 'Download Later' messages in
confirmation  dialog</guilabel> will cause the confirmation dialog to
show up during mailbox check if at least one message was tagged for
<guilabel>Download Later</guilabel> - even if all messages exceeding
the threshold size were matched by a rule. This option is useful in the
case you have messages matched by a rule and tagged for
<guilabel>Download Later</guilabel>, but you do not get any message
exceeding the size limit for a very long time. Without this option,
the confirmation dialog would never show up and you would never have
a chance to get the queued message by changing the action manually.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popfilters-confirmation">
<title>The Confirmation Dialog</title>

<para>This dialog shows up whenever you have POP filtering switched
on and  messages were found on the server that exceed the threshold
size you defined for the POP account. Now you have the chance to
decide what you want to do with that message. The options are
<guilabel>Download</guilabel> (green), <guilabel>Download
later</guilabel> (yellow with egg watch) and <guilabel>Delete from
server</guilabel> (red <quote>X</quote>). Be cautious with the delete
option, since once you deleted a mail from the server, there is no
way to undelete it again.</para>

<para>In the <guilabel>Filtered Messages</guilabel> section you can
check the box if you receive messages that were automatically tagged for
a certain action (download, download later, delete) by a filter rule.
The checkbox is only enabled if you receive some messages that were
matched by a filter rule; once you check it, a list similar to the
one for the not-automatically-tagged messages will be displayed and you 
can change the action for every single message.</para>

<para>Please note that if there is a message exceeding the size
limit, but all messages are matched by a filter rule the dialog will
not be displayed. One exception occurs if you have checked 
<guilabel>Always show matched 'Download Later' messages</guilabel> in
the <guilabel>Global Options</guilabel> section of the POP filter
configuration dialog; then, the dialog will also be displayed if you only
have matched messages, but at least one message was tagged for
<guilabel>Download later</guilabel>.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="multiple-accounts">
<title>Using Multiple Accounts</title>

<para>Multiple accounts are used to check for messages from more than one email address
and/or mail server. Select <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kmail;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and click on the
<guilabel>Network</guilabel> page to add or change your account settings. See the
<link linkend="getting-started">Getting started</link> section for more
information on the settings in the <guilabel>Network</guilabel> page.</para>

<para>To check for messages from a particular account, use the
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Check Mail
In</guimenuitem></menuchoice> submenu to select the account to check
for mail. You can also press the mouse button on the <guiicon>Check
Mail</guiicon> icon for some time to get a list of accounts.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="pgp">
<!-- This section is from Andreas Gungl, 2000-05-21, updated 2002-10-06 by Ingo Kloecker -->
<title>Signing and Encrypting Messages with <application>PGP</application> 
or <application>GnuPG</application></title>

<note><para>There have been major changes in the way &kmail; handles 
signing/encryption. The following introduction applies to the previous
version of &kmail;. You can still read the introduction to get an overview
about how to sign/encrypt messages, but the details, especially those of
the configuration, will differ.</para></note>

<para>This is a short introduction on how to setup &kmail;'s
<application>PGP</application> (<application>Pretty Good Privacy</application>) support; 
it gives some hints on the use of
<application>PGP</application> too. It is written for people who are beginners in
this area; if you are familiar with the use of <application>PGP</application>, you can
skip most of the steps. This documentation, and the &kmail; user interface,
generally talk only about  <quote>PGP</quote>, but it applies to 
both <application>PGP</application> and <application>GnuPG</application> 
(<application>GNU Privacy Guard</application>), 
(although some <application>GnuPG</application> command-line parameters 
may be different.)</para>

<para>Please
also check out the <link linkend="pgp-faq">&FAQ; item about
<application>PGP</application></link>.</para>

<warning><para>Attachments will not be signed/encrypted if you are using
inline OpenPGP: to sign/encrypt attachments, you have to install GnuPG and
some necessary libraries;
then, you can decide for each attachment whether it should be signed/encrypted or not.
</para></warning>

<warning><para>&kmail; has to rely on <application>PGP</application>'s
output; this output is often different between different versions of 
<application>PGP</application>, so it is important that you test if encryption
really works with your setup before you start using it seriously. &kmail; might
<emphasis>not</emphasis> warn you if something fails -- enable 
<guilabel>Show signed/encrypted text
after composing</guilabel>.  </para></warning>

<para>To setup and use <application>PGP</application> support in &kmail; it is
necessary to have <application>PGP</application> installed and set up
properly; of course, we cannot give you a full introduction of
<application>PGP</application> here. We will only mention the steps you have to
do to get <application>PGP</application> going. For details you should have a look at 
the excellent  <application>PGP</application> documentation 
or <ulink url="http://www.gnupg.org/docs.html#guides">The GNU Privacy Handbook</ulink>.</para> 

<para>It is certainly a good idea to study this documentation as well as an
introduction into public key cryptography (&eg; out of the
<application>PGP</application> 6.5.x package): there you can learn a lot about
the basic concepts, which will help you to understand what is going on; also,
many security related issues you should know about are discussed there.</para>

<para>Now, let us start.</para>

<sect2 id="pgp-preconditions">
<title>Preconditions</title>

<para>&kmail; expects that your <application>PGP</application> binary is called
<command>pgp</command>; in the case of <application>GnuPG</application>, it expects
the binary to be called <command>gpg</command>. If this is not the case for you,
just make a symlink.</para>

<para>If you have not done so, you have to generate a key pair (secret and public
key) for your identity. You must do this at the command line: use
<userinput><command>pgp</command> <option>-kg</option></userinput>
or <userinput><command>gpg</command> <option>--gen-key</option></userinput>: &kmail;
has no internal support for <application>pgp</application>'s key generation at
this time. The identity (normally your name followed by your email address
within brackets, such as <userinput>John Doe
&lt;john@example.com&gt;</userinput>) and your passphrase are important for the
co-operation between &kmail; and <application>PGP</application>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="pgp-settings">
<title><application>PGP</application>-Related Settings in &kmail;</title>

<para>Select the <guilabel>OpenPGP</guilabel> tab on
the <guilabel>Security</guilabel> settings page; there you will find the
following options:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Encryption tool</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Here you can choose if you want to use <application>PGP</application>,
<application>GnuPG</application> or no encryption
software at all; of course, the program you select has to be
installed on your system (it is also important to select the correct
version.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Keep passphrase in memory</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When this option is off, &kmail; will ask for your passphrase each
time you sign a message (before sending) or select an encrypted message;
if you turn this option on, &kmail; will remember your passphrase from
after your first successful input until you finish your &kmail; session. The
passphrase is stored in memory and not written to the hard disk.
If you use one of the Crypto-Plugins or if you use <application>GnuPG</application>
with the gpg-agent then an external program will ask for your passphrase and
optionally remember it for some time.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Always encrypt to self</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is off and you want to send an encrypted message to somebody,
then you cannot read this message any longer after you have composed and
encrypted it. Turn this option on to keep sent encrypted messages readable for
you too.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show signed/encrypted text after composing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will show you the result of encrypting and signing before the message
gets sent; this way, you can still cancel sending if encrypting failed. It is
strongly recommended to use this option.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Always show the encryption keys for approval</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will always open a dialog that lets you choose the keys used for
each recipient when you are sending an encrypted message; if this
option is off, &kmail; will show this dialog only when it cannot
find a key for a recipient or when there are conflicting or unset encryption
preferences.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Automatically sign messages using OpenPGP</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This lets you toggle whether to automatically sign your messages
by default; of course, it is still possible to send unsigned messages by deselecting
the icon in the composer window.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Automatically encrypt messages whenever possible</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this option is on, &kmail; will automatically encrypt messages
with the built-in OpenPGP support or the PGP/MIME-Plugin provided that,
for every recipient, a trusted PGP key is found in your keyring and
you did not tell &kmail; not to encrypt messages sent to
certain recipients. If in doubt, &kmail; will ask whether the message
should be encrypted or not.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>Now that you have setup the encryption tool you have tell &kmail; which
OpenPGP key you want to use for signing and for encrypting messages;
to do this go to the <link linkend="configure-identity">Identities configuration</link>
and set the key that should be used on the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab of the
identity configuration.</para>

<para>Now you are able to sign outgoing messages; to let people send you
encrypted messages and to let them verify your signature you
must send them your public key or upload your public key to a public
<application>PGP</application> key server so that they can fetch your key from there.
To send encrypted messages to other people or to verify their signed
messages you will need their public keys;  you can store your public key(s) on a
public <application>PGP</application> key server such as <ulink
url="http://www.cam.ac.uk.pgp.net/pgpnet/">http://www.cam.ac.uk.pgp.net/pgpnet/</ulink>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="pgp-sign-your-messages">
<title>Sign your Messages</title>

<para>You can compose your message as usual in the composer
window of &kmail;. Before you send the message, check the <guiicon>Sign Message</guiicon>
icon on the toolbar of the composer window; then, you can send
the message. The identity you are using to write the current message needs to 
be connected to an <guilabel>OpenPGP Key</guilabel> in the <guilabel>Identity</guilabel>
section of the <guilabel>Configure</guilabel> dialog.
To sign the message, &kmail; needs to know your <application>PGP</application> 
passphrase: if you did not select <guilabel>Keep passphrase in memory</guilabel> in the
<guilabel>Security</guilabel> section, &kmail; will ask you for it; otherwise,
if you have already given the phrase to &kmail;, it will sign the
message without any further prompt.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="pgp-encrypt-your-messages">
<title>Encrypt your Messages</title>

<para>To send an encrypted message to somebody of whom you have a
public key, you simply create the message in the composer window.
Before you send the message, check the <guibutton>Encrypt
Message</guibutton> button in the toolbar of the composer window; note
that you might not have to check the button if <guilabel>Automatically
encrypt messages whenever possible</guilabel> is selected in
&kmail;'s configuration (see <link linkend="pgp-sign-your-messages">above</link>).
Then send the message.</para>

<para>
If you checked the <guilabel>Encrypt Message</guilabel> button and &kmail;
cannot find a matching key for a recipient, it will display a list containing
all available keys in the <guilabel>Encryption Key Selection</guilabel> dialog;
if &kmail; finds more than one trusted key for a recipient, it will
display a list containing all matching keys for this recipient. In both
cases you can select the key(s) which should be used for encrypting
this message for the recipient in question.
Using the <guilabel>Remember choice</guilabel>
checkbox you can save your selection for future messages.</para>

<para>If you are using a key for the first time, there are conflicting
Encryption Preferences, or if <guilabel>Always
show the encryption keys for approval</guilabel> is selected in the
<guilabel>Security</guilabel> section of &kmail;'s configuration dialog
the <guilabel>Encryption Key Approval</guilabel> dialog will appear;
here, you can select different keys for the recipients and can 
set the <guilabel>Encryption Preference</guilabel> for each recipient.
The default option, <guilabel>Encrypt whenever encryption is
possible</guilabel>, will automatically encrypt your message if there is a 
trusted key for each recipient.</para>

<para>As mentioned above, you will not be able to read your own encrypted sent
messages if you do not check <guilabel>Always encrypt to self</guilabel> in the
settings' <guilabel>Security</guilabel> page.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="pgp-send-your-public-key">
<title>Send your Public Key</title>

<para>Prepare a message to the person to whom you want to send your public key;
then, choose, in the composer window's menu,
<menuchoice><guimenu>Attach</guimenu><guimenuitem>Attach My Public
Key</guimenuitem></menuchoice>: this will attach the public key you
defined for the current identity to the message. Now you can send the message.</para>

<para>Remember that it is not safe at all if you sign the message to make sure
that the receiver will get the correct key: there can be a man-in-the-middle
attack, as somebody can change the key and sign the message with that other
key. That is why the recipient should verify the attached key by checking the
key's fingerprint against the one he received in a secure way from you; have a look
at the <application>PGP</application> documentation for further details.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="pgp-you-received-an-encrypted-message">
<title>You received an encrypted Message</title>

<para>All you have to do is to select the message in &kmail;. You will be
prompted for your passphrase; then, &kmail; will try to decrypt the message and
show you the plain text if the message had been encrypted with your public
key: if not, then you will not be able to read it. &kmail; stores the messages
encrypted, so nobody can read these messages without knowing your passphrase.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="pgp-receiving-a-public-key">
<title>Receiving a Public Key</title>

<para>You can receive a public key as an attachment or via http, ftp or a floppy.
Before you can use this key to encrypt a message to the owner of the
key, you should verify the key (check its fingerprint or look for
trusted signatures); then, you can add this key to your public keyring
by typing <userinput><command>pgp</command> <option>-ka</option>
<replaceable>filename</replaceable></userinput> at the command line (if you are using 
<application>PGP</application>) or by typing 
<userinput><command>gpg</command> <option>--import</option>
<replaceable>filename</replaceable></userinput> at the command line (if you are using
<application>GnuPG</application>). If the key is not certified with a trusted signature 
you cannot use it to encrypt messages unless you have signed the key with your key.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-anti-spam-wizard">
<title>The Anti-Spam Wizard</title>

<sect2 id="spam-wizard-basics">
<title>Basics</title>

<para>&kmail; does not have a built-in spam detection solution: the developers believe 
using external, but specialized, tools is the better approach. &kmail; uses these tools 
through its flexible filter architecture. The Anti-Spam Wizard helps you with the 
initial filter setup.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>What can the wizard do to help you?</term>
<listitem>
<para>It will give you some choices about how you want the spam filtering to be set up. 
Afterwards it will automatically create the appropriate filter rules.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>What are the limitations of the wizard?</term>
<listitem>
<para>It can only initially set up the filters for you; and it will provide a 
standard setup. Modifying existing filters is not yet possible.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>You can activate the wizard via <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Anti-Spam Wizard...</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.</para>

<para>The wizard scans for known anti-spam tools on your computer. 
It is as well possible to use results of spam checks made by your provider
by evaluating some header information which has been added to the messages.
You can let the wizard prepare KMail to use one or many of them in parallel.
However, note that anti-spam tool operations are usually time consuming.
KMail can appear to be frozen during the scan of the messages for spam, 
you may encounter problems with the responsiveness of KMail. Please consider 
deleting the filter rules created by the wizard if the filtering becomes 
too slow for you. 
Here are some recommendations regarding the supported tools:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>Bogofilter</term>
<listitem>
<para>Bogofilter is a bayesian filter, that means it's spam detection 
relies on an initial training phase. On the other hand, it's a pretty 
fast tool. That's why it is recommended to be used by people which 
primarily want to have a fast spam detection, and which don't worry 
about the little training in the beginning before the detection rate
increases significantly.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term>SpamAssassin</term>
<listitem>
<para>SpamAssassin is a pretty complex tool to fight against spam. 
Although it's behavior depends heavily on it's configuration, that 
tool can detect spam quite well without any training. However,
scanning a message takes a little longer compare to pure bayesian 
filters. Let's say, it's not the tool of choice for people without
some background information about SpamAssassin's capabilities.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term>Annoyance-Filter</term>
<listitem>
<para>Perhaps not so often used until distributions pick it up.
It's clearly a tool for specialists.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term>GMX Spam Filter</term>
<listitem>
<para>Given that you get your mail via the GMX freemail provider,
your messages are scanned for spam. The result of that process is 
documented in a special header field of each message. It's possible to
use the content of this header field to sort out spam. There is no 
slowdown in the filtering if only this tool is used, as the messages
have already been processed.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>


</sect2>

<sect2 id="spam-wizard-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<para>Here are the details of how the wizard works: &kmail; can use several 
external tools to detect spam messages; it will try to automatically find 
out which of those tools are installed on your box and will show you the 
result of the search for each tool. You can mark the tools which you want 
to be used by &kmail; to detect spam; marking tools which were not found is 
not possible because the appropriate checkboxes are disabled. Of course, you 
can close the wizard, install a tool, and restart the wizard again.
</para>

<para>If you have marked at least one tool you will be able to select some actions 
to be done in &kmail; with regard to spam messages: to let &kmail; detect spam 
messages you definitely should mark the <guilabel>Classify messages using the
anti-spam tools</guilabel> option; if you want messages detected as 
spam to be moved into a certain folder, please select the appropriate folder and 
mark the <guilabel>Move detected spam messages to the selected folder</guilabel> 
option; if messages detected as spam should additionally be marked as read,
then mark the <guilabel>Additionally, mark detected spam messages as read</guilabel> option.
</para>

<para>If you want to be able to manually mark messages as spam or non-spam 
(ham) you should check the <guilabel>Classify messages manually as spam</guilabel> 
option: note that you can seemingly achieve the same 
result when you only change the status of the appropriate messages;
but, if any of the tools you selected support Bayesian filtering 
(&ie; a method to detect spam based on statistical analysis of the 
messages) then these messages are not only marked but additionally 
transfered to the tools to let them learn so they can improve their
detection rate.
</para>

<para>Having checked at least one of these last options will allow you to 
let the wizard finish the filter setup. The wizard will not take any existing 
filter rules into consideration but will append new rules in any case; you 
may want to inspect the result of this process in the 
<link linkend="filter-dialog">Filter Dialog</link>. If you have checked the 
<guilabel>Classify messages manually as spam / not spam</guilabel> option 
the wizard will create toolbar buttons for marking messages as spam or
as ham; keep in mind that classifying messages as spam will also move those 
messages to the folder you had specified for spam messages.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="spam-wizard-details">
<title>Details</title>

<para>The wizard uses information stored in a special configuration file named 
<filename>kmail.antispamrc</filename> (stored in the global or local KDE 
config directory). It will first check the global config file and then the local 
config file: if the local config file contains entries with higher (newer) 
version numbers per-tool the configuration data from the local file for that 
tool is used; that way, both administrators and users can update the
wizard configuration.
</para>

<para>The detection of spam messages is achieved by creating 
<guilabel>pipe through</guilabel> actions per-tool within a 
special filter. Another filter contains rules to check for detected spam 
messages and actions to mark them and (optionally, depending on the choice 
in the wizard) to move them into a folder. Both filters are configured to 
be applied on incoming messages and on manual filtering.
</para>

<para>Two filters are needed for the classification of ham and spam. They 
contain actions to mark the messages appropriately. As mentioned above, the filter 
for classification as spam has another action to move the message into a 
predefined folder. If the selected tools support Bayesian filtering, 
the wizard will create additional filter actions to pass the messages to the 
tools (<guilabel>execute command</guilabel> actions) in the 
appropriate learn mode.
</para>

<para>If you want to fine-tune the filtering process, you might be interested in the 
chapter about <link linkend="filter-optimization">Filter Optimization</link>.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-anti-virus-wizard">
<title>The Anti-Virus Wizard</title>

<sect2 id="virus-wizard-basics">
<title>Basics</title>

<para>&kmail; does not have a built-in virus detection solution: the developers believe 
using external, but specialized, tools is the better approach. &kmail; uses these tools 
through its flexible filter architecture. The Anti-Virus Wizard helps you with the 
initial filter setup.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>What can the wizard do to help you?</term>
<listitem>
<para>It will give you some choices about how you want virus filtering to be set up. 
Afterwards it will automatically create the appropriate filter rules.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>What are the limitations of the wizard?</term>
<listitem>
<para>It can only initially set up the filters for you; and it will provide a 
standard setup. Modifying existing filters is not yet possible.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>You can activate the wizard via <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Anti-Virus Wizard...</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="virus-wizard-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<para>The Anti-Virus Wizard basically works exactly as the 
<link linkend="the-anti-spam-wizard">Anti-Spam Wizard</link>.
Here are the details of how the wizard works: &kmail; can use several 
external tools to detect messages containing viruses; it will try to automatically find 
out which of those tools are installed on your box and will show you the 
result of the search for each tool. You can mark the tools which you want 
to be used by &kmail; to detect viruses; marking tools which were not found is 
not possible because the appropriate checkboxes are disabled. Of course, you 
can close the wizard, install a tool, and restart the wizard again.
</para>

<para>If you have marked at least one tool you will be able to select some actions 
to be done in &kmail; with regard to messages containing viruses: to let &kmail; detect 
messages containing viruses you definitely should mark the <guilabel>Check messages using the
anti-virus tools</guilabel> option; if you want messages detected as 
virus-infected to be moved into a certain folder, please select the appropriate folder and 
mark the <guilabel>Move detected viral messages to the selected folder</guilabel> 
option; if messages detected as virus-infected should additionally be marked as read,
then mark the <guilabel>Additionally, mark detected viral messages as read</guilabel> option.
</para>

<para>Having checked at least one of these last options will allow you to 
let the wizard finish the filter setup. The wizard will not take any existing 
filter rules into consideration but will append new rules in any case; you 
may want to inspect the result of this process in the 
<link linkend="filter-dialog">Filter Dialog</link>.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="virus-wizard-details">
<title>Details</title>

<para>The wizard uses information stored in a special configuration file named 
<filename>kmail.antivirusrc</filename> (stored in the global or local KDE 
config directory). It will first check the global config file and then the local 
config file: if the local config file contains entries with higher (newer) 
version numbers per-tool the configuration data from the local file for that 
tool is used; that way, both administrators and users can update the
wizard configuration.
</para>

<para>The detection of messages containing viruses is achieved by creating 
<guilabel>pipe through</guilabel> actions per-tool within a 
special filter. Another filter contains rules to check for detected viral 
messages and actions to mark them and (optionally, depending on the choice 
in the wizard) to move them into a folder. Both filters are configured to 
be applied on incoming messages and on manual filtering.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>
