<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY PIM "<acronym>PIM</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kontact;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdepim">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"> 
]>

<book id="kontact-admin" lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kappname; Administrator's Guide</title>

<authorgroup>

<author>
<firstname>Allen</firstname>
<surname>Winter</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>allen@kdab.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (YYYY-MM-DD) and of the version
(V.MM.LL), it could be used by automation scripts.
Do NOT change these in the translation. -->

<date>2009-05-22</date>
<releaseinfo>0.00.02</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract><para>This is the administrator's manual for &kappname;,
the integrated solution to your personal information management (&PIM;) needs.
&kappname; combines well-known &kde; applications like &kmail;, &korganizer;
and &kaddressbook; into a single interface to provide easy access to mail,
scheduling, address book and other &PIM; functionality.  </para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdepim</keyword>
<keyword>PIM</keyword>
<keyword>KMail</keyword>
<keyword>KOrganizer</keyword>
<keyword>KAddressBook</keyword>
<keyword>KNotes</keyword>
<keyword>Akregator</keyword>
<keyword>administration</keyword>
<keyword>administer</keyword>
<keyword>email</keyword>
<keyword>calendar</keyword>
<keyword>contact</keyword>
<keyword>administration</keyword>
<keyword>administer</keyword>
<keyword>groupware</keyword>
<keyword>Outlook</keyword>
<keyword>Exchange</keyword>
<keyword>Evolution</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<!-- Chapter Introduction -->
<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
This is the administrator's manual for &kappname;,
the integrated solution to your personal information management (&PIM;) needs.
This document is intended to aid the groupware administrator with typical tasks
needed to setup &kappname; and make it work smoothly in various environments.
</para>

<para>
&kappname; combines well-known &kde; applications like &kmail;, &korganizer;
and &kaddressbook; into a single interface to provide easy access to mail,
scheduling, address book and other &PIM; functionality.  </para>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Compatibility -->
<chapter id="compat">
<title>Compatibility Issues</title>

<para>
This chapter provides help with how how to make &kappname;
communicate effectively with various groupware solutions.
</para>

<sect1 id="compat-outlook">
<title>Outlook and Exchange</title>

<para>
In the &kappname; configuration dialog, under Misc->Groupware...
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Behavior -->
<chapter id="behavior">
<title>Behavioral Issues</title>

<para>
This chapter provides instructions on how to make &kappname; 
behave more like other groupware clients.
</para>

<sect1 id="behave-composing">
<title>Composing Messages</title>

<para>
Outlook users are accustomed to typing a list of addresses in the To:,
CC: or BCC: fields separated by a semicolon (';') character in addition
to a comma (',').  By default, &kappname; only allows the comma as an address
separator character.  To also allow the semicolon, change the
<option>AllowSemicolonAsAddressSeparator</option> from false to true
in the installed <filename>share/config.kcfg/kmail.kcfg</filename> file 
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Common Problems -->
<chapter id="common-problems">
<title>Common Problems</title>
<para>
This chapter deals with common problems the administrator is likely to encounter.
</para>

<sect1 id="freebusy">
<title>FreeBusy</title>

<para>
FreeBusy common problems ...
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Credits+License -->
<chapter id="credits-and-license">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
Documentation Copyright &copy; 2009 Klarälvdalens Datakonsult AB, a KDAB Group company, <email>info@kdab.net</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->
&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->
</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kapp">
<title>How to obtain &kappname;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<!-- This entity contains the boilerplate text for standard -->
<!-- compilation instructions.  If your application requires any -->
<!-- special handling, remove it, and replace with your own text. -->

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 2; tab-width 2; indent-mode none;
-->
