<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" 
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY kappname "&kaddressbook;">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->  
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kaddressbook; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Don</firstname>
<surname>Sanders</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>dsanders@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Steffen</firstname>
<surname>Hansen</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>hansen@kde.org</email>
</address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-06-01</date>
<releaseinfo>0.02.00</releaseinfo>

<legalnotice>
&FDLNotice;
</legalnotice>

<abstract>
<para>&kaddressbook; is the &kde; address book.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kaddressbook</keyword>

</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<sect1 id="features">
<title>Features</title>

<para>
The documentation for &kaddressbook; was not complete at the time you
installed this application.  If you have any questions, please direct
them to the appropriate &kde; mailing list. 
</para>

<para>
For &kaddressbook; this is probably 
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="using-pab">
<title>Using &kaddressbook;</title>

<para></para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="ldap">
<title>Accessing address data on LDAP servers with &kaddressbook;</title>
<para>&kaddressbook; can be used to import address information from LDAP servers into the local addressbook by using the LDAP search dialog.</para>
    <para>To configure (a number) of LDAP servers, open the
configuration dialog
(<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
KAddressBook...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>), select LDAP, and use
<guibutton>Add Host</guibutton> to configure (a number) of
servers. Then move the servers to the "LDAP servers to search" list
and press <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to close the dialog.
</para>
<para>On the main toolbar in &kaddressbook; a button with a picture of
a magnifying glass over a book is available. Use this button to open
the LDAP search dialog. The dialog itself is pretty straight
forward. Just type in parts of a name, email address or phonenumber
and press the <guibutton>Search</guibutton> button.</para> 
<para>When the
    results display in the listbox, it is possible to select one or more
    address(es) and use the <guibutton>Add Selected</guibutton> to import the
    selected address(es) to the local addressbook, or click the
    <guibutton>Mail to Selected</guibutton> to invoke the mail program
    and write an email to the selected recipients.
</para>
<para>The <guibutton>Recursive search</guibutton> checkbox is by
default enabled. This will make the LDAP query consider all objects
below the base DN of each server. If you only want to consider objects
one level below the base, uncheck this checkbox. If in doubt, leave it
checked.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="questions-answers-and-tips">
<title>Questions, Answers, and Tips</title>

<sect1 id="question-1">
<title>Question 1</title>

<para>The answer</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<para>
</para>

<sect1 id="how-to-obtain-pab">
<title>How to obtain &kaddressbook;</title>

<para>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation-and-installation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<para>Compiling &kaddressbook; is very easy. The following should do it:
<screen>
&percnt; ./configure
&percnt; make
&percnt; make install
</screen>
</para>

<para>That should do it! Should you run into any problems, please report them
to the author at <email>dsanders@kde.org</email></para>

&underFDL;

</sect1>
</appendix>

</book>

