.TH INSTALL-DATEBOOK 1 "Palm Computing Device Tools" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
install-datebook \- installs a new datebook entries in a Palm Device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install-date /dev/cua? filename [filename filename ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B install-datebook
allows the user to write one or more datebook entries from one or more
source files. Once 
.B install-datebook
is started, the user must invoke HotSync on the target device.
.LP
The format of source file contains one datebook entry on line,
containing four tab separated fields. The fields are start date/time,
end date/time, alarm settings, and the description of datebook entry.
This program doesn't yet support repeted entries. The date and time
must be in format understand by parsedate.y. At least following
formats are understood:
.LP
August 11, 1997 0800 GMT+300
.br
1997/08/11 08:22:33 GMT+300
.LP
If the either one of the date and time fields is empty the entry is
installed without time. If the alarm field is entry the entry is
installed without alarms. Alarm field can contain number followed by
"m" (minutes), "h" (hours), or "d" (days). Here are some complete
example lines (" <TAB> "= tab, " <NL> " = newline):
.LP
1997/08/11 0800 GMT+300 <TAB> 1997/08/11 0900 GMT+300 <TAB> <TAB> IETF
Registration <NL>
.br
August 11, 1997 0900 GMT+300 <TAB> August 11, 1997 0930 GMT+300 <TAB>
2m <TAB> Introductions <NL>
.SS OPTIONS
none
.SH USEAGE
The program will connect to a target, and write the file or files
given on the command line.
.SH BUGS
If no timezone is given to date the
.B install-datebook
will assume the time is in GMT and it will convert it to localtime. If
you don\'t want to write timezone to all begin and end times set the
TZ environment variable to GMT before running this program. 
.SH AUTHOR
.B install-datebook
was written by Tero Kivinen <kivinen@iki.fi>. This program was based
on install-todos program written by Robert A. Kaplan. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read-ical (1),
.BR pilot-xfer (1),
.BR ietf2datebook (1).
