.TH PILOT-ADDRESSES 1 "Palm Computing Device Tools" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pilot-addresses \- read and write address book databases to and from a Palm
Computing Device, Handspring Visor, TRGPro, or other Palm Compatible
Handheld PDA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pilot-addresses
.RI -p\  [<port>]
.RB [ -c 
.IR category
]
.RB [ -d 
.IR category
]
.RB [ -r 
.IR file
|
.B -w
.IR file
] 
.PP
(Note that some options are not shown above)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" This manual page
.\" documents the application
.\" .BR pilot-addresses .
.B pilot-addresses
allows the user to read all entries in the Palm address book database, write
new entries into the database, and delete a category or delete all entries
in the database. Once the user has executed
.B pilot-addresses
the user must invoke HotSync on the target device.
.SH TARGET DEVICE
The default serial device used to communicate with a Palm is
.BR /dev/pilot .
If the environment variable
.B $PILOTPORT
is set, its value will override the default. A serial device specified on
the command-line will be used regardless of any
.B $PILOTPORT 
setting.
.SH OPTIONS
Several options exist, including...
.TP
.BI \-a
Augments fields in address book records with additional information.  The
augmented information is placed before and separated from the field with a
semi-colon, (;).

Augmented information includes: 
.RS
.I category_name
\- placed in front of each record or

.RB [ """Work""" 
| 
.B """Home""" 
|
.B """Fax""" 
|
.B """Other""" 
|
.B """E-mail""" 
|
.B """Main""" 
|
.B """Pager""" 
|
.B """Mobile""" 
]
\- placed in front of each phone number field. 

Empty fields are not augmented.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-c\  category
Install records to category 
.I category
by default. Normally pilot-addresses uses 
.I Unfiled 
as the default category. This option is overridden by the category 
specified in the record with the 
.B -a
option.
.TP
.BI \-d\  category
Delete all records in the specified 
.I category
before installing new records.
.TP
.B -D
Delete all address book records in all categories. Obviously, be very
careful with this one.
.TP
.B -e
Escape all special characters with a backslash. This enables you to read and
write entries with newline characters in a field or note.
.TP
.B -q
Causes 
.B pilot-addresses
to be quiet and not prompt you to press the HotSync button.
.TP
.BI \-r\  file
Reads records from 
.I file 
and install them to the Palm address book database. (Use the 
.BI \-w\  file 
to get a template file for input records.)
.TP
.BI \-t\  delim
Include category in each record, use the delimiter specified to separate all
fields of a record. Delimiters are specified as follows: 3=tab, 2=;, 1=,. 
This overrides the default delimiter of comma between fields and semi-colon
between a field's augmented information. (Please note that this may generate
confusing results when used with the
.B -a
option.)
.TP
.B -T
Write a header line with field titles as the first line of the data file.
.TP
.BI \-w\  file
Get all address book records from the Palm address book database and writes
them into
.I file 
.SH USAGE
The program will connect to a target device and port, prompt the user to
HotSync, and perform the requested read or write operation specified by the
user.
.SH EXAMPLES
To write all address records in a Palm to the file addrbook.csv:
.RS
pilot-addresses -w addrbook.csv
.RE 
or
.RS 
pilot-addresses -p /dev/irnine -w addrbook.csv

.RE
To read the address book records in the file addrbook.csv and install them
on a Palm:
.RS
pilot-addresses -r addrbook.csv

.RE
To read the address book records in the file addrbook.csv and place them into
the Palm address book database category 
.I Special 
after first deleting all current records in the 
.I Special 
category on the palm:
.RS
pilot-addresses -c Special -d Special -r addrbook.csv

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pilot-link(7) .
.SH AUTHOR
.B pilot-addresses
written by _____.
This manual page was originally written by Robert Wittig.
