.TH PILOT-XFER 1 "Palm Computing Device Tools" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pilot-xfer \- backup and restore databases to and from a Palm Computing
Device, Handspring Visor, TRGPro, or other Palm Compatible Handheld PDA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pilot-xfer
.RI -p\  [<port>]
.RB [ --exclude
.IR file ]
.B --backup
|
.B --update
|
.B --sync
.I directory
.PP
or
.PP
.B pilot-xfer
.RI -p\  [<port>]
[
.BI --restore\  directory
|
.B --list
|
.B --Listall
|
.B --purge
|
.B --fetch
.IR dbname\  ...
|
.B --delete
.IR dbname\  ...
|
.B --install
.IR file\  ...
|
.B --merge
.IR file\  ...
] ...
.PP
(Note that some options are not shown above and short option aliases are excluded for clarity)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" This manual page
.\" documents the application
.\" .BR pilot-xfer .
.B pilot-xfer
allows the user to install databases contained in the standard .prc and .pdb
formats onto a Palm, retrieve databases from the Palm, list the databases
contained in a Palm, and backup or restore all of the databases at once.
Once the user has executed
.B pilot-xfer
the user must invoke HotSync on the target device.
.SH TARGET DEVICE
The default serial device used to communicate with a Palm is
.BR /dev/pilot .
If the environment variable
.B $PILOTPORT
is set, its value will override the default.
A serial device specified on the command-line will be used regardless of any
.B $PILOTPORT 
setting.
.SH OPTIONS
Several options exist, including...
.TP
.BI \-a\  dir ,
Archives files which have been removed from the Palm to
.I dir
instead of just deleting (unlinking) them
.TP
.BI \-b\  dir ,\ \-\-backup\  dir
Backs up the Palm into the specified directory (which will be created if it does not already exist).
This operation must be specified
.I after
any
.B exclude
option.
.TP
.B \-c\, \-\-count
Counts the files as they go by, but shunts the displaying of the "Skipping file..." messages
.TP
.BI \-d\  dbname\  [...],\ \-\-delete\  dbname\  [...]
Delete the specified database(s) by name (without extension).  Obviously, be very careful with this one.
.TP
.BI \-e\  file ,\ \-\-exclude\  file
Reads a list of databases from
.IR file .
Prevents
.BR \-\-backup ,
.BR \-\-sync ,
or
.B \-\-update
from operating on the listed database(s).
This option must be specified before the
.BR \-\-backup ,
.BR \-\-sync ,
or
.B \-\-update
operation whose action it modifies.
.TP
.BI \-f\  dbname\  [...],\ \-\-fetch\  dbname\  [...]
Fetch each specified database out of the Palm into the current directory.
.TP
.B \-F
Modifies the behavior of
.BR \-\-backup ,
.BR \-\-sync ,
and
.BR \-\-update
to back up non-OS databases which have been stored in FlashROM
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Displays a summary list of 
.IR pilot-xfer 's
usage and exits.
.TP
.BI \-i\  file\  [...],\ \-\-install\  file\ [...]
Install each specified file into the Palm. Wildcards are valid with this syntax.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list
List the databases in the Palm, excluding OS-specific databases.
.TP
.B \-L, \-\-Listall
List all of the databases on the Palm, including OS-specific native databases.
.TP
.BI \-m\  file\  [...],\ \-\-merge\  file\  [...]
Adds the records in each specified file into the corresponding Palm database.
.TP
.B \-O
Modifies the behavior of   
.BR \-\-backup ,
.BR \-\-sync ,
and
.BR \-\-update
to back up OS databases which are stored in FlashROM
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-purge
Purge any deleted data that hasn't been cleaned up by a sync (this is a safe
operation, and will prevent your Palm from accumulating crud if you delete
records but aren't syncing with a PIM.) The only information you can lose is 
archived but un-synced records.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Causes 
.I pilot-xfer
to be quiet and not display the "Skipping file..." messages
.TP
.BI \-r\  dir ,\ \-\-restore\  dir
Installs all files contained in a directory into the Palm.
(Use this to restore your Palm after a hard reset has cleared its memory, using
your
.B backup
directory as a baseline.)
.TP
.BI \-s\  dir ,\ \-\-sync\  dir
Backs up the Palm into the specified directory (which will be created if it 
does not already exist). Any Palm databases which have not been modified or 
created since the versions stored in the specified directory will not be backed up.

.B NOTE:
Any Palm databases which have been deleted will have their corresponding backup
file removed.
This operation must be specified
.I after
any
.B exclude
option.
.TP
.BI \-u\  dir ,\ \-\-update\  dir
Backs up the Palm into the specified directory (which will be created if it does 
not already exist). Any Palm databases which have not been modified or created 
since the versions stored in the specified directory will not be backed up.
This operation must be specified
.I after
any
.B exclude
option.
.TP
.B \-U
This will back up the UnsavedPreferences.pdb file from the Palm. Normally this
file is not backed up by normal means (Palm Computing recommends that you do 
.B not
restore this file upon restoration of your device using
.B \-\-restore

This also modifies the behavior of
.B \-\-backup
.B \-\-sync
and
.B \-\-update

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Displays the version of
.I pilot-link
from which this program was installed and exits.
.SH USAGE
The program will connect to a target device and port, prompt the user to HotSync,
and perform the requested database options specified by the user.
.SH EXAMPLES
To backup a Palm:

.RS
pilot-xfer --backup /home/pilot/Backup
.RE 
or
.RS 
pilot-xfer -p /dev/irnine -b /home/pilot/Backup

.RE
To restore that backup to a non-standard serial port (for example, to a
xcopilot or POSE session, assuming you have xcopilot or POSE configured 
properly for this operation, see the appropriate man pages for details
on configuring your emulator):

.RS
pilot-xfer -p /dev/ttyqe --restore /home/pilot/Backup

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pilot-link(7) .
.SH AUTHOR
.B pilot-xfer
written by Kenneth Albanowski.
This manual page was originally written by Kenneth Albanowski and David H. Silber.
Completely rewritten by David A. Desrosiers for pilot-link 0.9.5.
