.TH PILOT-LINK 7 "Palm Computing Device Tools" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pilot-link \- a suite of tools for communicating with Palm Computing, Inc. 
Palm Devices as well as the Handspring Visor, TRGPro, and other devices
which conform to this standard (PalmOS licensed devices).
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pilot-link
suite of tools contains a series of conduits for moving information to and
from your Palm device and your desktop or workstation system.
.SH TARGET DEVICE
All of the
.B pilot-link
programs will default to
.B /dev/pilot
as the default serial device used to communicate with a Palm. In general, if
the environment variable
.B $PILOTPORT
is set, its value will override the default. A serial device specified on
the command-line will be used regardless of any
$PILOTPORT setting.
.PP
The default connection rate is 9600 baud. You are welcome to try higher baud
rates (19200, 38400, 57600 or higher) by setting the
.B $PILOTRATE
environment variable, but various machines have various limitations. (Be
careful about values higher than 115200 on Linux boxes if you've been using
setserial to change the multiplier.)
.SH USAGE
Here is a list of programs available from within the
.B pilot-link
package as of the date of this manpage.
.TP
.B addresses
dump the Palm address book into a generic text-output format

.TP
.B debugsh
command-line interface to a Palm debug monitor

.TP
.B dlpsh
command-line interface to Palm HotSync protocol. This is very useful for
debugging potential problems with your serial port. Query the RAM/ROM, list
databases, change your UserID or Username, and many more functions.

.TP
.B getrom
program to fetch ROM using getrom.prc or getrom2.prc

.TP
.B getrom.prc
Palm program to help dump a 512K ROM

.TP
.B getrom2.prc
Palm program to help dump a 1024K ROM (used for PalmOS 2.x)

.TP
.B ietf2datebook
convert IETF calendar to format used by install-datebook

.TP
.B install-datebook
import datebook records from a text format into the Palm

.TP
.B install-memo
import Memo records from a text format into the Palm

.TP
.B install-todos
import ToDo records from a text format into the Palm

.TP
.B install-user
modify User Preference settings and report additional intormation about
the Palm, such as the Network Hotsync ID and Username/UserID

.TP
.B memos
export memos from the Palm in mailbox format into one file, or one of two
formats: one-file-per-record or one-directory-per-category

.TP
.B pi-csd
this must be running to accept Network HotSync(tm) connects

.TP
.B pi-getram
program that retrieves the RAM from Palm

.TP
.B pi-getrom
program that retrieves ROM from Palm (without getrom.prc)

.TP
.B pi-nredir
program that accepts connections and redirects them via the Network
HotSync(tm) protocol

.TP
.B pi-port
experimental program to abstract the serial layer from pilot-link

.TP
.B pilot-addresses
import and export records from the Address Book (AddressDB.pdb) on your
Palm

.TP
.B pilot-clip
experimental program to import and export data from Palm clipboard

.TP
.B pilot-debug
graphical and command-line program to interface with Palm debug monitor

.TP
.B pilot-dedupe
strips duplicate records from Palm databases

.TP
.B pilot-file
dissect .prc and .pdb files to view header, app_info, and record
information

.TP
.B pilot-mail
import mail from POP3 mailbox into Palm's default Mail application, and send
mail via sendmail. This has been replaced by
.I pilot-mailsync 
from Hollis Blanchard. Please see the CREDITS file for additional
information on how to obtain this package.

.TP
.B pilot-schlep
stores a single file of any data type (such as .zip or .mp3) on the Palm or
retrieves one from the Palm

.TP
.B pilot-undelete
turn previously archived records into normal records by resetting the Dirty
bit

.TP
.B pilot-xfer
back up, restore, install & delete Palm databases. The Swiss Army Chainsaw
of
.B pilot-link

.TP
.B read-expenses
export Palm expense database into text format

.TP
.B read-ical
export Palm Datebook and ToDo databases (DatebookDB.pdb and ToDoDB.pdb
respectively) into an Ical calendar (ical is required)

.TP
.B read-todos
export Palm ToDo database into generic text format

.TP
.B reminders
export Palm Datebook into a 'remind' data file

.TP
.B sync-plan
completely synchronize the Palm datebook with the Plan calendar via netplan,
including authenticating to the netplan server

.SH ADVANCED PROGRAMS
Some of these programs are not intended for general end-users. More detailed
documentation on their usage can be obtained by reading the source of the
application.
.TP
.B ccexample
test program demonstrating C++ interface
.TP
.B iambicexample
test program demonstrating C++ interface
.TP
.B validate
experimental program to test C++ features    

.SH OBTAINING
The  most  current  version of the
.I pilot-link
suite of tools can be found at the following web site:

.RS
.I http://www.gnu-designs.com/pilot-link/
.RE
.SH MAILING LIST
The pilot-unix mailing list is maintained by Matthew Cravit. Its mandate
is:
.RS

The pilot-unix mailing list is for discussion and idea-sharing for those
interested in using your Palm PDA with UNIX systems. This includes people
who are interested in helping to develop tools to allow the Palm to operate
with UNIX, and possibly to develop an SDK for the Palm for Unix.
.RE
.PP
For more information, including how to subscribe to the list, send mail
containing the word 'INFO' to
.IR pilot-unix-request@hcirisc.cs.binghamton.edu.
The subject line does not matter. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
.\" Please list all pilot-link manual pages here, in alphabetic order.
.\"
.BR dlpsh(1) ,
.BR ietf2datebook(1) ,
.BR install-datebook(1) ,
.BR install-hinote(1) ,
.BR install-memo(1) ,
.BR install-user(1) ,
.BR pilot-xfer(1) ,
.BR read-ical(1) ,

.IR Pilot-HOWTO (http://www.orbits.com/Pilot/Pilot-HOWTO.html).
.SH AUTHOR
Most of the
.B pilot-link
tools were written by Kenneth Albanowski.
This manual page was written by David H. Silber, and updated for this version of 
.B pilot-link 
by David A. Desrosiers.

Current maintainer of pilot-link as of the authoring of this manpage is
David A. Desrosiers.

Any questions or problems with 
.B pilot-link
should be directed at the
.I pilot-unix
mailing list. All patches should be sent to 
.I pilot-link@gnu-designs.com 
directly.
