<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!-- TODO:
     + Change license to GPL+QT exception
     + Search for other TODOs
     END TODO -->
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [

  <!ENTITY konsolekalendar "<application>KonsoleKalendar</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "KonsoleKalendar">
  <!ENTITY package "kdepim">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>
<!-- The language must NOT be changed here. -->

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>

<title>The &konsolekalendar; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Tuukka</firstname>
<surname>Pasanen</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>illuusio@mailcity.com</email></address></affiliation>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Allen</firstname>
<surname>Winter</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>awinterz@users.sourceforge.net</email></address></affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Malcolm</firstname>
<surname>Hunter</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>malcolm.hunter@gmx.co.uk</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2002</year><year>2004</year><holder>Tuukka Pasanen</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year>2003</year><year>2005</year><holder>Allen Winter</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Don't change format of date and version of the documentation -->

<date>2004-04-15</date>
<releaseinfo>1.1.1</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&konsolekalendar; is a command line interface to &kde; calendars.</para>
</abstract>


<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>&package;</keyword>
<keyword>&kappname;</keyword>
<keyword>KOrganizer</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>


<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; is a command line interface to &kde; calendars.
It lets you view, insert, remove, or modify calendar events by way of
the command line or from a scripting language.
Additionally, &konsolekalendar; can create a new &kde; calendar,
export a &kde; calendar to a variety of other formats, and
import another &kde; calendar.</para>

<para>In its basic mode, &konsolekalendar; displays the list of
events in your default calendar for the current day (from 7:00 to 17:00).</para>

<para>Main features of &konsolekalendar;:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>View calendar entries from a start date/time to end date/time</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Insert (add) calendar entries</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Remove (delete) calendar entries</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Modify (change) calendar entries</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Create a new calendar</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Export calendar entries to other file formats</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Import an existing &kde; calendar</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist></para>

<para>&konsolekalendar; is <emphasis>not</emphasis> another graphical
user interface to a &kde; calendar (i.e. &korganizer;).  &konsolekalendar;
is intended solely for uses where a graphical user interface is
not practical or possible.</para>

<para>&konsolekalendar; does <emphasis>not</emphasis> provide a full-featured
language for making queries of the user's calendar: nor is it the intention
of the authors to ever write such a capability.  Primitive command line
options are provided for accessing calendar events within a consecutive
range of dates/time stamps.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="features">
<title>Features</title>
<para>In this chapter you'll learn about the main features of
&konsolekalendar; and how to control them using the command line parameters
(remember that &konsolekalendar; is not a graphical user interface;
it is a command line program only).</para>

<para>
You'll learn about inserting, deleting, and changing
calendar events, and how to export events to other file formats.
The creation and importation of &kde; calendars will also be covered
in this chapter.
</para>

<sect1 id="viewing">
<title>Viewing Events</title>

<para>In its default mode, or by using the <parameter>--view</parameter>
option, &konsolekalendar; will list all events within the range of a specified
date/time.</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>To view all of today's events (from 7:00 to 17:00), simply run:</para>

<para>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command>
</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>In this next example, we view all events for the week of August 18-22:</para>

<para>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--view</option> <option>--date <replaceable>2003-08-18</replaceable> </option> <option>--end-date <replaceable>2003-08-22</replaceable></option>
</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>Show the next event(s) on the calendar from the current time forward:</para>

<para>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--next</option>
</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>To view all events for the next 5 days run:</para>

<para>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--show-next</option> <replaceable>5</replaceable>

</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="inserting">
<title>Inserting Events</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; can insert events into a &kde; calendar or calendar
resource using the <parameter>--add</parameter> command line argument.
Events successfully inserted will be immediately shown by &kde; calendar
applications (like &korganizer;).</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>In the following example, an event starting on 2003-06-04 (June 4, 2003)
at 1000 and ending at 1200 with summary "Doctor Visit" will be
inserted into the user's default calendar resource:</para>


<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--add</option> <option>--date <replaceable>2003-06-04</replaceable></option> <option>--time <replaceable>10:00</replaceable></option> \
<option>--end-time <replaceable>12:00</replaceable></option> <option>--summary <replaceable>"Doctor Visit"</replaceable></option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>In this example, a birthday event is added into the
user's default calendar resource:</para>

<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--add</option> <option>--date <replaceable>2003-06-06</replaceable></option> <option>--summary <replaceable>"My Birthday"</replaceable></option> \
<option>--description <replaceable>"Party Time"</replaceable></option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para> Here a one week vacation is inserted into a shared <replaceable>vacation</replaceable> calendar:</para>

<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--add</option> <option>--file <replaceable>vacation.ics</replaceable></option> <option>--date <replaceable>2003-08-01</replaceable></option> \
<option>--end-date <replaceable>2003-08-07</replaceable></option> <option>--summary <replaceable>"Vacation"</replaceable></option> <option>--description <replaceable>"Nobody will ever find me!"</replaceable></option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="deleting">
<title>Removing Entries</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; supports the removal of entries in a calendar file or
resource using the <parameter>--delete</parameter> command line argument.
Calendar entries to be removed are specified exactly by their Unique-string
identifier (<acronym>UID</acronym>) using the <parameter>--uid</parameter>
option.  <acronym>UIDs</acronym> are found by first viewing the event,
using the <parameter>--view</parameter> option.</para>

<para>Events successfully deleted will be immediately removed from within &kde; calendar
applications (&korganizer; for example).</para>

<warning><para> When you delete something from the calendar you
<emphasis>cannot</emphasis> undo it! In other words, when you delete an entry
you cannot reverse the deletion. It's gone for good.</para></warning>

<para>
<informalexample><para>Here we delete a calendar entry with <acronym>UID</acronym> <replaceable>&konsolekalendar;-1887551750.196</replaceable>:</para>

<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--delete</option> <option>--uid <replaceable>&konsolekalendar;-1887551750.196</replaceable></option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="changing">
<title>Modifying Entries</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; supports the modification of existing entries in a calendar
file or resource using the <parameter>--change</parameter> command line argument.
Calendar entries to be modified are specified exactly by their Unique-string
identifier (<acronym>UID</acronym>) using the <parameter>--uid</parameter>
option.  <acronym>UIDs</acronym> are found by first viewing the event,
using the <parameter>--view</parameter> option.</para>

<para>
Changing behaves in the same way as inserting: you can change an event's start date 
and time, end date and time, summary, location, and description.  Events
successfully changed will be immediately shown modified within &kde; calendar
applications (&korganizer;).</para>

<para><emphasis>Example:</emphasis> Here we change the summary and description
of a calendar entry with <acronym>UID</acronym> <replaceable>&konsolekalendar;-1887551750.196</replaceable>:</para>

<para>
<informalexample>
<para>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command>
<option>--change</option> <option>--uid
<replaceable>&konsolekalendar;-1887551750.196</replaceable></option>
<option>--summary <replaceable>"Get my head examined"</replaceable></option> <option>--description <replaceable>"don't go to that doctor anymore!"</replaceable></option>
</userinput>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="creating">
<title>Creating a New Calendar File</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; can be used to create a new &kde; calendar file.
Since you cannot insert an entry into a calendar that does not exist,
you must create the file first using the <parameter>--create</parameter>
and <parameter>--file</parameter> command line arguments.</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para>Create a calendar file named
<filename><replaceable>/data/share/calendars/vacation.ics</replaceable></filename>:</para>

<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--create</option> <option>--file <replaceable>/data/share/calendars/vacation.ics</replaceable></option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="exporting">
<title>Exporting to Other Formats</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; can export a &kde; calendar to other well known formats.
Exporting is a special form of viewing.  By default, events are viewed
in <quote>&konsolekalendar; text</quote> format.  To change the viewing
format use the <parameter>--export-type</parameter> command line argument.</para>

<para>To see a list of all supported export formats, use the
<parameter>--export-list</parameter> option, as in:</para>

<para>
<informalexample>
<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--export-list</option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="formats">
<title>Export Formats</title>

<para>Some, but not necessarily all, of the supported formats are
described in the this section.</para>

<sect2 id="native-format">
<title>&konsolekalendar; Text Format</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; Text Format is &konsolekalendar;'s native format
and is designed to be comfortable to read and to be parseable by follow-on
scripts.</para>

<para>The &konsolekalendar; Text Format is:
<informalexample>
<screen>
Date:\t&lt;Incidence Date&gt;(dddd yyyy-MM-dd)
[\t&lt;Incidence Start Time&gt;(hh:mm) - &lt;Incidence End Time&gt;(hh:mm)]
Summary:
\t&lt;Incidence Summary | "(no summary available)"&gt;
Location:
\t&lt;Incidence Location | "(no location available)"&gt;
Description:
\t&lt;Incidence Description | "(no description available)"&gt;
UID:
\t&lt;Incidence UID&gt;
--------------------------------------------------
</screen>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>For example:
<informalexample>
<screen>
Date:   Tuesday 2003-11-01
        08:00 - 09:00
Summary:
        Staff Meeting
Location:
        Conference Room
Description:
        Meet with the entire staff to discuss the project.
UID:
        &konsolekalendar;-1128954167.1013
--------------------------------------------------
</screen>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="short-format">
<title>&konsolekalendar; Short Text Format</title>

<para>Short Text Format provides a more compact, less verbose version of
&konsolekalendar;'s native format.</para>

<para>The &konsolekalendar; Short Text Format is:
<informalexample>
<screen>
[--------------------------------------------------]
{&lt;Incidence Date&gt;(dddd yyyy-MM-dd)]
[&lt;Incidence Start Time&gt;(hh:mm) - &lt;Incidence End Time&gt;(hh:mm) | "\t"]
\t&lt;Incidence Summary | \t&gt;[, &lt;Incidence Location&gt;]
\t\t&lt;Incidence Description | "\t"&gt;
</screen>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>For example:
<informalexample>
<screen>
--------------------------------------------------
Tuesday 2003-11-01
08:00 - 09:00   Staff Meeting, Conference Room
                Meet with the entire staff to discuss the project.
</screen>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="csv-format">
<title>Comma-Separated Values (<acronym>CSV</acronym>) Format</title>

<para>Comma-Separated Value Format displays the event values in the same order
as &konsolekalendar; Text format. The only difference is that all the
information is on the same row with each field separated by a comma.
The resulting exported files can be imported directly into spreadsheet programs
like &kspread;, <application>OpenOffice.org Calc</application>,
and <application>&Microsoft; Excel</application>.
Also, <acronym>CSV</acronym> format is easy to parse with follow-on scripts.</para>

<para>The Comma-Separated Value (<acronym>CSV</acronym>) format is:
<informalexample>
<screen>
YYYY-MM-DD,HH:MM,YYYY-MM-DD,HH:MM,Summary,Location,Description,UID
</screen>
</informalexample>
</para>

<para>For example:
<informalexample>
<screen>
2003-11-01,08:00,2003-11-01,09:00,Staff Meeting,Conference Room,Meet in the big conference \
room with the entire staff.,&konsolekalendar;-1128954167.1013
</screen>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="html-format">
<title><acronym>HTML</acronym> Format</title>

<para>The <acronym>HTML</acronym> export format will produce a valid
<acronym>HTML</acronym> file that can be published to the <acronym>WWW</acronym>.
This export format is not suitable for follow-on script parsing, but is
very nice for publishing calendars for easy public viewing.</para>

<para><emphasis>TODO:</emphasis> Insert screenshot here</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="html-month-format">
<title><acronym>HTMLmonth</acronym> Format</title>

<para>This format produces an <acronym>HTML</acronym> file showing 
all appointments in the months specified by the date range.
This export format is not suitable for follow-on script parsing, but is
very nice for publishing calendars for easy public viewing.</para>

<para><emphasis>TODO:</emphasis> Insert screenshot here</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="importing">
<title>Importing Calendars</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; can import an <acronym>ICS</acronym> calendar file
into a &kde; calendar.  All events from the calendar being imported from will 
be inserted, including identical events.  In the next &konsolekalendar; release 
identical events will not be inserted.</para>

<para>
<informalexample><para> To import calendar file
<filename><replaceable>another.ics</replaceable></filename> into calendar
<filename><replaceable>current.ics</replaceable></filename> run:</para>

<para>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput> <command>konsolekalendar</command> <option>--import <replaceable>another.ics</replaceable></option> <option>--file <replaceable>current.ics</replaceable></option></userinput></screen>
</para>
</informalexample>
</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="features-commandline-options">
<title>Command Line Arguments</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; supports the following options:</para>

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
  <entry>Option</entry>
  <entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
  <entry><option>--help, --help-all</option></entry>
  <entry>Shows help about the program options.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--author</option></entry>
  <entry>Shows the program author information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>-v, --version</option></entry>
  <entry>Shows the program version information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--license</option></entry>
  <entry>Shows the program license information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--verbose</option></entry>
  <entry>Print helpful runtime messages.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--dry-run</option></entry>
  <entry>Print what would have been done, but do not execute.  Do not change any
files; do not insert, remove, modify any existing files, nor create any new files.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--file</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;calendar-file</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Specify a calendar file to use.
  <para>If not specified then your default &korganizer; resource is used.</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><emphasis>Major Operation Modes:</emphasis></entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--view</option></entry>
  <entry>Print calendar events in specified export format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--add</option></entry>
  <entry>Insert an event into the calendar.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--change</option></entry>
  <entry>Modify an existing calendar event.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--delete</option></entry>
  <entry>Remove an existing calendar event.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--create</option></entry>
  <entry>Create a new calendar file if one does not exist.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--import</option>
 <replaceable>&nbsp;import-file</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Import this calendar to the main calendar.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><emphasis>Operation modifiers:</emphasis></entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--all</option></entry>
  <entry>View all calendar entries.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--next</option></entry>
  <entry>View next activity in calendar.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--show-next</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;days</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Starting at specified date show next # days' activities.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--uid</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;UID</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>View, delete, or change the event with this Unique-string IDentifier.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--date</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;date</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Start at this day [YYYY-MM-DD].  Default date is Today</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--time</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;time</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Start at this time [HH:MM].  Default time for viewing is 07:00.
         <para>To add or change a floating event, use the <option>--time float</option>
         or the <option>--end-time float</option> options.</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--end-date</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;end-date</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>End at this day [YYYY-MM-DD].  Default is set by <option>--date</option>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--end-time</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;end-time</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>End at this time [HH:MM].   Default end-time for viewing is 17:00.
         <para>To add or change a floating event, use the <option>--time float</option>
         or the <option>--end-time float</option> options.</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--epoch-start</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;epoch-time</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Start at this time [seconds since epoch].</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--epoch-end</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;epoch-time</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>End at this time [seconds since epoch].</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--summary</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;summary</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Add summary to event (works with add and change).</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--description</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;description</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Add description to event (works with add and change).</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--location</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;location</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Add location to event (works with add and change).</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><emphasis>Export options:</emphasis></entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--export-type</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;export-type</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Export file type.
  Default export file type is Text</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--export-file</option>
  <replaceable>&nbsp;export-file</replaceable></entry>
  <entry>Export to file.  By default, output is written to standard output.</entry>
</row>
<row>
  <entry><option>--export-list</option></entry>
  <entry>Print list of export types supported and exit.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

</chapter>

<chapter id="faq">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

&reporting.bugs;
&updating.documentation;

<qandaset id="faqlist">
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What configuration files does &konsolekalendar; use?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>None.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What are the application names of &konsolekalendar;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konsolekalendar;'s application name is <application>konsolekalendar</application>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is the date specification format?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konsolekalendar; will reject dates specified on the command line
unless they are specified according to ISO 8601 standards, namely:
YYYY-MM-DD.  Where YYYY represents a four-digit year (like 2003), MM
represents a two-digit month (01,02,..,12), and DD represents a two-digit day
(01,02,...,31).</para>
<para>&konsolekalendar; always exports dates according to the ISO 8601 format.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is the time specification format?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konsolekalendar; will reject times specified on the command line
unless they are specified according to ISO 8601 standards, namely:
HH:MM:SS.  Where HH represents a two-digit hour (01,02,...,24), MM
represents a two-digit minute (01,02,..,60), and SS represents a two-digit
second (01,02,...,60).</para>
<para>&konsolekalendar; always exports times according to the ISO 8601 format.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Will &konsolekalendar; insert a new event that is identical to one that
already exists in the calendar?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>No.  See next question.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How does &konsolekalendar; determine if an event is identical to one that
already exists in the calendar?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konsolekalendar; checks the specified start date and time, end date and time,
and summary against all events in the calendar.  An event match is determined
if all three values match to an existing event.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Can a non-floating event be changed to a floating event?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes.  Use the <option>--time float</option> option with <option>--change</option>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why are event <acronym>UIDs</acronym> printed in most export formats?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Because you need to specify <acronym>UIDs</acronym> to delete or
change events.
If you do not want to see event <acronym>UIDs</acronym> then use the
<emphasis>short</emphasis> export type (<option>--export-type short</option>).
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I have my question added to this <acronym>FAQ</acronym>?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Send your questions to <email>illuusio@lycos.com</email>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>


<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; Program copyright 2002,2003:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Tuukka Pasanen <email>illuusio@mailcity.com</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Allen Winter <email>awinterz@users.sourceforge.net</email></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation copyright 2003:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Allen Winter <email>awinterz@users.sourceforge.net</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Tuukka Pasanen<email>illuusio@mailcity.com</email></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->

&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="obtaining-application">
<title>How to obtain &konsolekalendar;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

<para>&konsolekalendar; comes included with &kde;3 and is not available separately.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>&konsolekalendar; requires the standard &kde; libraries to be installed
(the <filename>kdelibs</filename> package). To compile from source,
you also need the &Qt; and <filename>kdelibs</filename> development
packages.</para>

<para>You can find a list of changes in the
<filename>ChangeLog</filename> file.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and installation</title>

<para>This section provides a quick overview of the build process.
Please read <ulink url="http://developer.kde.org/build/compile_kde3_2.html">
Compiling &kde; 3.2.x</ulink> for complete instructions.</para>

<para>If you cannot obtain a suitable precompiled binary package, you
need to compile &konsolekalendar; yourself from source files. Get the source
package file <filename>kdepim-x.x.tar.bz2</filename>.
Unpack it in a new folder using a command similar to
<userinput><command>tar</command> <option>xvfj
<replaceable>package.tar.bz2</replaceable></option></userinput>, and
change to the folder which has been created.</para>

&install.compile.documentation;

<note><para>If you have more than one version of &kde; installed
(e.g. &kde;2 and &kde;3), this may possibly install &konsolekalendar; into the
wrong &kde; folder. If necessary, you can give the &kde; folder
as a parameter to
<userinput><command>./configure</command></userinput>. For example,
if your &kde; is installed in <filename>/opt/kde3</filename>:
</para>

<para><userinput><command>./configure</command> --prefix=<replaceable>/opt/kde3</replaceable></userinput></para></note>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configuration">
<title>Configuration</title>

<para>No special configuration is required to set up &konsolekalendar; to run
on the &kde; desktop.</para>

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:
-->
