<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?> 
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->
<chapter id="faq">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I have installed &kde; 4, but &knode; does not exist in the
<guimenu>K</guimenu> Menu.</para>
 </question> 
<answer> 
<para>Does the <guisubmenu>Internet</guisubmenu> entry exist? If not,
maybe the kdenetwork package isn't installed (perhaps because your
distribution possibly doesn't do this for you); if the entry is there,
but you do not have a <guimenuitem>KNode</guimenuitem> item
in it, you should try to open a &konsole; and run &knode; from
there. Type</para>

<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>knode &amp;</command></userinput>
</screen> 

<para>If an error message appears that tells you that &knode; could
not be started or found please check whether the file
<filename>knode</filename> exists in <filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/bin</filename> and that its
permissions are correctly set.</para>
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para> 
When I start &knode;, a message appears in the task bar but suddenly
disappears without &knode; being started.</para> 
</question> 
<answer>
<para>Try to start &knode; from the &konsole; (see previous question)
and keep attention for the messages displayed there: if they do not
make sense to you mark them with your mouse and copy it to the
clipboard; then, ask for help on one of the &kde; mailing lists or
&kde; news groups.</para>
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>I need an important article, but &knode; doesn't have it any
more; where can I find this article?</para>
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>You can find some extensive usenet archives at
<ulink
url="http://groups.google.com/">groups.google.com</ulink> or
<ulink url="http://news.search.yahoo.com/">Yahoo! Search</ulink>; they even contain
articles that are several years old.</para> 
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>How do I open and read several articles at the same time?</para> 
</question> 
<answer> 
<para> Open the article with <guimenuitem>Open in own
window</guimenuitem>.</para> 
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>My articles do not appear in the newsgroup.</para>
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>When you publish an article it may be some time until your
news server has it; wait several hours before you send the article
again.</para> 
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>I want to keep an article; how do I archive it?</para> 
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>Choose the article in the article
view and then use 
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
to open a file dialog; you can then save the article to a file. Another
possibility is to copy the article to a folder.</para>
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>Some set headers do not appear for several articles in the
article window; am I doing something wrong?</para> 
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>This is not unusual because many headers are optional and often
not contained in articles; in this case &knode; does not show those
header lines.</para> 
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>Sometimes I see an article which refers to other articles but
&knode; does not show any references; why is that?</para> 
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>This happens when somebody posted an article in another news
group and checked the option <guilabel>Followup-To</guilabel>; the
article in question is then sent to your news group, but the referring
article is absent. In many cases the poster tells the reason for his
choice to set a followup.</para>
</answer> 
</qandaentry> 

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>When I want to answer an article an error message appears
telling me that the external editor could not be started, but the
editor is correctly set.</para>
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>Have a look whether you entered the place-holder for a filename
after the editor command; if not, enter it.  If you want, for example, to
use &kwrite; enter <userinput><command>kwrite</command><token>
%f</token></userinput></para>
<para>If the <token>%f</token> is absent, your editor cannot be
run.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry> 
<question>
<para>Why can I not receive data from my local news server?</para>
</question> 
<answer> 
<para>If you use &knode; together with a local news server, you
must make sure that this server is correctly set up and started; for
further details, please consult the documentation of your local news
server.</para>
<tip> 
<para> 
The availability of the local news server can easily be verified with
the <command>telnet</command> program: open a console and type:</para> 
 
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>telnet</command> <parameter>localhost nntp</parameter></userinput>
</screen>

<para>Followed by that, the news server should respond with:</para>

<screen>
<computeroutput>
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to localhost.
Escape character is '^]'.
200 Leafnode NNTP Daemon, version 1.9.16 running at konqi.org
</computeroutput>
</screen>

<para>You can quit the <command>telnet</command> session with:</para>

<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>quit</userinput>
</screen>

<para>If that does not work there is either no local news server
set up or the server was not started; in this case, please consult the
documentation of your local news server.</para>
</tip>

<para>If you are trying to connect to a news server on the Internet
you need, of course, an open (dial-in) connection and to have set
up &knode; to use your <acronym>ISP</acronym>'s news server; your
<acronym>ISP</acronym> should be able to give you information about
which news servers you can use.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset> 


</chapter> 
